7	1	After the king was settled in his palace and the LORD had given him rest from all his enemies around him, 
7	2	he said to Nathan the prophet, Here I am, living in a palace of cedar, while the ark of God remains in a tent. 
7	3	Nathan replied to the king, Whatever you have in mind, go ahead and do it, for the LORD is with you. 
7	4	That night the word of the LORD came to Nathan, saying	 
7	5	Go and tell my servant David, `This is what the LORD says	 Are you the one to build me a house to dwell in? 
7	6	I have not dwelt in a house from the day I brought the Israelites up out of Egypt to this day. I have been moving from place to place with a tent as my dwelling. 
7	7	Wherever I have moved with all the Israelites, did I ever say to any of their rulers whom I commanded to shepherd my people Israel, Why have you not built me a house of cedar?’ 
7	8	Now then, tell my servant David, `This is what the LORD Almighty says	 I took you from the pasture and from following the flock to be ruler over my people Israel. 
7	9	I have been with you wherever you have gone, and I have cut off all your enemies from before you. Now I will make your name great, like the names of the greatest men of the earth. 
7	10	And I will provide a place for my people Israel and will plant them so that they can have a home of their own and no longer 723 be disturbed. Wicked people shall not oppress them any more, as they did at the beginning 
7	11	and have done ever since the time I appointed leaders [Traditionally judges] over my people Israel. I will also give you rest from all your enemies. `The LORD declares to you that the LORD himself will establish a house for you	 
7	12	When your days are over and you rest with your fathers, I will raise up your offspring to succeed you, who will come from your own body, and I will establish his kingdom. 
7	13	He is the one who will build a house for my Name, and I will establish the throne of his kingdom for ever. 
7	14	I will be his father, and he shall be my son. When he does wrong, I will punish him with the rod of men, with floggings inflicted by men. 
7	15	But my love will never be taken away from him, as I took it away from Saul, whom I removed from before you. 
7	16	Your house and your kingdom shall endure for ever before me [Some Hebrew manuscripts and Septuagint most Hebrew manuscripts you] your throne shall be established for ever.’ 
7	17	Nathan reported to David all the words of this entire revelation. 
7	18	Then King David went in and sat before the LORD, and he said	 Who am I, O Sovereign LORD, and what is my family, that you have brought me this far? 
7	19	And as if this were not enough in your sight, O Sovereign LORD, you have also spoken about the future of the house of your servant. Is this your usual way of dealing with man, O Sovereign LORD? 
7	20	What more can David say to you? For you know your servant, O Sovereign LORD. 
7	21	For the sake of your word and according to your will, you have done this great thing and made it known to your servant. 
7	22	How great you are, O Sovereign LORD! There is no-one like you, and there is no God but you, as we have heard with our own ears. 
7	23	And who is like your people Israel	the one nation on earth that God went out to redeem as a people for himself, and to make a name for himself, and to perform great and awesome wonders by driving out nations and their gods from before your people, who 
7	24	You have established your people Israel as your very own for ever, and you, O LORD, have become their God. 
7	25	And now, LORD God, keep for ever the promise you have made concerning your servant and his house. Do as you promised, 
7	26	so that your name will be great for ever. Then men will say, `The LORD Almighty is God over Israel!’ And the house of your servant David will be established before you. 
7	27	O LORD Almighty, God of Israel, you have revealed this to your servant, saying, `I will build a house for you.’ So your servant has found courage to offer you this prayer. 
7	28	Sovereign LORD, you are God! Your words are trustworthy, and you have promised these good things to your servant. 
7	29	Now be pleased to bless the house of your servant, that it may continue for ever in your sight for you, O Sovereign LORD, have spoken, and with your blessing the house of your servant will be blessed for ever.