24	1	Again the anger of the LORD burned against Israel, and he incited David against them, saying, Go and take a census of Israel and Judah. 
24	2	So the king said to Joab and the army commanders [Septuagint (see also verse 4 and 1 Chron. 21	2) Hebrew Joab the army commander] with him, Go throughout the tribes of Israel from Dan to Beersheba and enrol the fighting men, so that I may know how many	
24	3	But Joab replied to the king, May the LORD your God multiply the troops a hundred times over, and may the eyes of my lord the king see it. But why does my lord the king want to do such a thing? 
24	4	The king’s word, however, overruled Joab and the army commanders so they left the presence of the king to enrol the fighting men of Israel. 
24	5	After crossing the Jordan, they camped near Aroer, south of the town in the gorge, and then went through Gad and on to Jazer. 
24	6	They went to Gilead and the region of Tahtim Hodshi, and on to Dan Jaan and around towards Sidon. 
24	7	Then they went towards the fortress of Tyre and all the towns of the Hivites and Canaanites. Finally, they went on to Beersheba in the Negev of Judah. 
24	8	After they had gone through the entire land, they came back to Jerusalem at the end of nine months and twenty days. 
24	9	Joab reported the number of the fighting men to the king	 In Israel there were eight hundred thousand able-bodied men who could handle a sword, and in Judah five hundred thousand. 
24	10	David was conscience-stricken after he had counted the fighting men, and he said to the LORD, I have sinned 773 greatly in what I have done. Now, O LORD, I beg you, take away the guilt of your servant. I have done a very foolish thing. 
24	11	Before David got up the next morning, the word of the LORD had come to Gad the prophet, David’s seer	 
24	12	Go and tell David, `This is what the LORD says	 I am giving you three options. Choose one of them for me to carry out against you.’ 
24	13	So Gad went to David and said to him, Shall there come upon you three [Septuagint (see also 1 Chron. 21	12) Hebrew seven] years of famine in your land? Or three months of fleeing from your enemies while they pursue you? Or three days of plague in your	
24	14	David said to Gad, I am in deep distress. Let us fall into the hands of the LORD, for his mercy is great but do not let me fall into the hands of men. 
24	15	So the LORD sent a plague on Israel from that morning until the end of the time designated, and seventy thousand of the people from Dan to Beersheba died. 
24	16	When the angel stretched out his hand to destroy Jerusalem, the LORD was grieved because of the calamity and said to the angel who was afflicting the people, Enough! Withdraw your hand. The angel of the LORD was then at the threshing-floor of Araunah t 
24	17	When David saw the angel who was striking down the people, he said to the LORD, I am the one who has sinned and done wrong. These are but sheep. What have they done? Let your hand fall upon me and my family. 
24	18	On that day Gad went to David and said to him, Go up and build an altar to the LORD on the threshing-floor of Araunah the Jebusite. 
24	19	So David went up, as the LORD had commanded through Gad. 
24	20	When Araunah looked and saw the king and his men coming towards him, he went out and bowed down before the king with his face to the ground. 
24	21	Araunah said, Why has my lord the king come to his servant? To buy your threshing-floor, David answered, so that I can build an altar to the LORD, that the plague on the people may be stopped. 
24	22	Araunah said to David, Let my lord the king take whatever pleases him and offer it up. Here are oxen for the burnt offering, and here are threshing-sledges and ox yokes for the wood. 
24	23	king, Araunah gives all this to the king. Araunah also said to him, May the LORD your God accept you. 
24	24	But the king replied to Araunah, No, I insist on paying you for it. I will not sacrifice to the LORD my God burnt offerings that cost me nothing. So David bought the threshing-floor and the oxen and paid fifty shekels [That is, about 1 1/4 pounds (abou 
24	25	David built an altar to the LORD there and sacrificed burnt offerings and fellowship offerings. [Traditionally peace offerings] Then the LORD answered prayer on behalf of the land, and the plague on Israel was stopped. 775 1 KINGS