21	1	During the reign of David, there was a famine for three successive years so David sought the face of the LORD. The LORD said, It is on account of Saul and his blood-stained house it is because he put the Gibeonites to death. 
21	2	The king summoned the Gibeonites and spoke to them. (Now the Gibeonites were not a part of Israel but were survivors of the Amorites the Israelites had sworn to spare them, but Saul in his zeal for Israel and Judah had tried to annihilate them.) 
21	3	David asked the Gibeonites, What shall I do for you? How shall I make amends so that you will bless the LORD’s inheritance? 
21	4	The Gibeonites answered him, We have no right to demand silver or gold from Saul or his family, nor do we have the right to put anyone in Israel to death. What do you want me to do for you? David asked. 
21	5	They answered the king, As for the man who destroyed us and plotted against us so that we have been decimated and have no place anywhere in Israel, 
21	6	let seven of his male descendants be given to us to be killed and exposed before the LORD at Gibeah of Saul	the LORD’s chosen one. So the king said, I will give them to you. 
21	7	The king spared Mephibosheth son of Jonathan, the son of Saul, because of the oath before the LORD between David and Jonathan son of Saul. 
21	8	But the king took Armoni and Mephibosheth, the two sons of Aiah’s daughter Rizpah, whom she had borne to Saul, together with the five sons of Saul’s daughter Merab, [Two Hebrew manuscripts, some Septuagint manuscripts and Syriac (see also 1 Samuel 18	19 
21	9	He handed them over to the Gibeonites, who killed and exposed them on a hill before the LORD. All seven of them fell together they were put to death during the first days of harvest, just as the barley harvest was beginning. 
21	10	Rizpah daughter of Aiah took sackcloth and spread it out for herself on a rock. From the beginning of the harvest till the rain poured down from the heavens on the bodies, she did not let the birds of the air touch them by day or the wild animals by ni 
21	11	When David was told what Aiah’s daughter Rizpah, Saul’s concubine, had done, 
21	12	he went and took the bones of Saul and his son Jonathan from the citizens of Jabesh Gilead. (They had taken them secretly from the public square at Beth Shan, where the Philistines had hung them after they struck Saul down on Gilboa.) 
21	13	David brought the bones of Saul and his son Jonathan from there, and the bones of those who had been killed and exposed were gathered up. 
21	14	They buried the bones of Saul and his son Jonathan in the tomb of Saul’s father Kish, at Zela in Benjamin, and did everything the king commanded. After that, God answered prayer on behalf of the land. 
21	15	Once again there was a battle between the Philistines and Israel. David went down with his men to fight against the Philistines, and he became exhausted. 
21	16	And Ishbi-Benob, one of the descendants of Rapha, whose bronze spearhead weighed three hundred shekels [That is, about 7 1/2 pounds (about 3.5 kilograms)] and who was armed with a new sword, said he would kill David. 
21	17	But Abishai son of Zeruiah came to David’s rescue he struck the Philistine down and killed him. Then David’s men swore to him, saying, Never again will you go out with us to battle, so that the lamp of Israel will not be extinguished. 
21	18	In the course of time, there was another battle with the Philistines, at Gob. At that time Sibbecai the Hushathite killed Saph, one of the descendants of Rapha. 
21	19	In another battle with the Philistines at Gob, Elhanan son of Jaare-Oregim [Or son of Jair the weaver] the Bethlehemite killed Goliath [Hebrew and Septuagint 1 Chron. 5 son of Jair killed Lahmi the brother of Goliath] the Gittite, who had a spear with	
21	20	In still another battle, which took place at Gath, there was a huge man with six fingers on each hand and six toes on each foot	twenty-four in all. He also was descended from Rapha. 
21	21	When he taunted Israel, Jonathan son of Shimeah, David’s brother, killed him. 
21	22	These four were descendants of Rapha in Gath, and they fell at the hands of David and his men.