7	1	It took Solomon thirteen years, however, to complete the construction of his palace. 
7	2	He built the Palace of the Forest of Lebanon a hundred cubits long, fifty wide and thirty high, [That is, about 150 feet (about 46 metres) long, 75 feet (about 23 metres) wide and 795 45 feet (about 13.5 metres) high] with four rows of cedar columns sup 
7	3	It was roofed with cedar above the beams that rested on the columns	forty-five beams, fifteen to a row. 
7	4	Its windows were placed high in sets of three, facing each other. 
7	5	All the doorways had rectangular frames they were in the front part in sets of three, facing each other. [The meaning of the Hebrew for this verse is uncertain.] 
7	6	He made a colonnade fifty cubits long and thirty wide. [That is, about 75 feet (about 23 metres) long and 45 feet (about 13.5 metres) wide] In front of it was a portico, and in front of that were pillars and an overhanging roof. 
7	7	He built the throne hall, the Hall of Justice, where he was to judge, and he covered it with cedar from floor to ceiling. [Vulgate and Syriac Hebrew floor] 
7	8	And the palace in which he was to live, set farther back, was similar in design. Solomon also made a palace like this hall for Pharaoh’s daughter, whom he had married. 
7	9	All these structures, from the outside to the great courtyard and from foundation to eaves, were made of blocks of highgrade stone cut to size and trimmed with a saw on their inner and outer faces. 
7	10	The foundations were laid with large stones of good quality, some measuring ten cubits [That is, about 15 feet (about 4.5 metres)] and some eight. [That is, about 12 feet (about 3.7 metres)] 
7	11	Above were high-grade stones, cut to size, and cedar beams. 
7	12	The great courtyard was surrounded by a wall of three courses of dressed stone and one course of trimmed cedar beams, as was the inner courtyard of the temple of the LORD with its portico.	
7	13	King Solomon sent to Tyre and brought Huram, [Hebrew Hiram, a variant of Huram also in verses 40 and 45] 
7	14	whose mother was a widow from the tribe of Naphtali and whose father was a man of Tyre and a craftsman in bronze. Huram was highly skilled and experienced in all kinds of bronze work. He came to King Solomon and did all the work assigned to him. 
7	15	He cast two bronze pillars, each eighteen cubits high and twelve cubits round, [That is, about 27 feet (about 8.2 metres) high and 18 feet (about 5.5 metres) round] by line. 
7	16	He also made two capitals of cast bronze to set on the tops of the pillars each capital was five cubits [That is, about 7 1/2 feet (about 2.3 metres) also in verse 23] high. 
7	17	A network of interwoven chains festooned the capitals on top of the pillars, seven for each capital. 
7	18	He made pomegranates in two rows [Two Hebrew manuscripts and Septuagint most Hebrew manuscripts made the pillars, and there were two rows] encircling each network to decorate the capitals on top of the pillars. [Many Hebrew manuscripts and Syriac most	
7	19	The capitals on top of the pillars in the portico were in the shape of lilies, four cubits [That is, about 6 feet (about 1.8 metres) also in verse 38] high. 
7	20	On the capitals of both pillars, above the bowl-shaped part next to the network, were the two hundred pomegranates in rows all around. 
7	21	He erected the pillars at the portico of the temple. The pillar to the south he named Jakin [Jakin probably means he establishes.] and the one to the north Boaz. [Boaz probably means in him is strength.] 
7	22	The capitals on top were in the shape of lilies. And so the work on the pillars was completed.	
7	23	He made the Sea of cast metal, circular in shape, measuring ten cubits [That is, about 15 feet (about 4.5 metres)] from rim to rim and five cubits high. It took a line of thirty cubits [That is, about 45 feet (about 13.7 metres)] to measure round it. 
7	24	Below the rim, gourds encircled it	ten to a cubit. The gourds were cast in two rows in one piece with the Sea. 
7	25	The Sea stood on twelve bulls, three facing north, three facing west, three facing south and three facing east. The Sea rested on top of them, and their hindquarters were towards the centre. 
7	26	It was a handbreadth [That is, about 3 inches (about 8 centimetres)] in thickness, and its rim was like the rim of a cup, like a lily blossom. It held two thousand baths. [That is, probably about 9,700 gallons (about 44 kilolitres) the Septuagint does	
7	27	He also made ten movable stands of bronze each was four cubits long, four wide and three high. [That is, about 6 feet (about 1.8 metres) long and wide and about 4 1/2 feet (about 1.4 metres) high] 
7	28	This is how the stands were made	 They had side panels attached to uprights. 
7	29	On the panels between the uprights were lions, bulls and cherubim	and on the uprights as well. Above and below the lions and bulls were wreaths of hammered work. 
7	30	Each stand had four bronze wheels with bronze axles, and each had a basin resting on four supports, cast with wreaths on each side. 
7	31	On the inside of the stand there was an opening that had a circular frame one cubit [That is, about 1 1/2 feet (about 0.5 metre)] deep. This opening was round, and with its basework it measured a cubit and a half. [That is, about 2 1/4 feet (about 0.7	
7	32	The four wheels were under the panels, and the axles of the wheels were attached to the stand. The diameter of each wheel was a cubit and a half. 
7	33	The wheels were made like chariot wheels the axles, rims, spokes and hubs were all of cast metal. 
7	34	Each stand had four handles, one on each corner, projecting from the stand. 
7	35	At the top of the stand there was a circular band half a cubit [That is, about 3/4 foot (about 0.2 metre)] deep. The supports and panels were attached to the top of the stand. 
7	36	He engraved cherubim, lions and palm trees on the surfaces of the supports and on the panels, in every available space, with wreaths all around. 
7	37	This is the way he made the ten stands. They were all cast in the same moulds and were identical in size and shape. 
7	38	He then made ten bronze basins, each holding forty baths [That is, about 195 gallons (about 880 litres)] and measuring four cubits across, one basin to go on each of the ten stands. 
7	39	He placed five of the stands on the south side of the temple and five on the north. He placed the Sea on the south side, at the south-east corner of the temple. 
7	40	He also made the basins and shovels and sprinkling bowls. So Huram finished all the work he had undertaken for King Solomon in the temple of the LORD	 
7	41	the two pillars the two bowl-shaped capitals on top of the pillars the two sets of network decorating the two bowlshaped capitals on top of the pillars 
7	42	the four hundred pomegranates for the two sets of network (two rows of pomegranates for each network, decorating the bowl-shaped capitals on top of the pillars)	
7	43	the ten stands with their ten basins 
7	44	the Sea and the twelve bulls under it 
7	45	the pots, shovels and sprinkling bowls. All these objects that Huram made for King Solomon for the temple of the LORD were of burnished bronze. 
7	46	The king had them cast in clay moulds in the plain of the Jordan between Succoth and Zarethan. 
7	47	Solomon left all these things unweighed, because there were so many the weight of the bronze was not determined. 
7	48	Solomon also made all the furnishings that were in the LORD’s temple	 the golden altar the golden table on which was the bread of the Presence 
7	49	the lampstands of pure gold (five on the right and five on the left, in front of the inner sanctuary) the gold floral work and lamps and tongs 
7	50	the pure gold dishes, wick trimmers, sprinkling bowls, dishes and censers and the gold sockets for the doors of the innermost room, the Most Holy Place, and also for the doors of the main hall of the temple. 
7	51	When all the work King Solomon had done for the temple of the LORD was finished, he brought in the things his father David had dedicated	the silver and gold and the furnishings	and he placed them in the treasuries of the LORD’s temple.