22	1	Josiah was eight years old when he became king, and he reigned in Jerusalem for thirty-one years. His mother’s name was Jedidah daughter of Adaiah she was from Bozkath. 
22	2	He did what was right in the eyes of the LORD and walked in all the ways of his father David, not turning aside to the right or to the left. 
22	3	In the eighteenth year of his reign, King Josiah sent the secretary, Shaphan son of Azaliah, the son of Meshullam, to the temple of the LORD. He said	 
22	4	Go up to Hilkiah the high priest and make him get ready the money that has been brought into the temple of the LORD, which the doorkeepers have collected from the people. 
22	5	Make them entrust it to the men appointed to supervise the work on the temple. And make these men pay the workers who repair the temple of the LORD 
22	6	the carpenters, the builders and the masons. Also make them purchase timber and dressed stone to repair the temple. 
22	7	But they need not account for the money entrusted to them, because they are acting faithfully. 
22	8	Hilkiah the high priest said to Shaphan the secretary, I have found the Book of the Law in the temple of the LORD. He gave it to Shaphan, who read it. 
22	9	Then Shaphan the secretary went to the king and reported to him	 Your officials have paid out the money that was in the temple of the LORD and have entrusted it to the workers and supervisors at the temple. 
22	10	Then Shaphan the secretary informed the king, Hilkiah the priest has given me a book. And Shaphan read from it in the presence of the king. 
22	11	When the king heard the words of the Book of the Law, he tore his robes. 
22	12	He gave these orders to Hilkiah the priest, Ahikam son of Shaphan, Acbor son of Micaiah, Shaphan the secretary and Asaiah the king’s attendant	 
22	13	Go and enquire of the LORD for me and for the people and for all Judah about what is written in this book that has been found. Great is the LORD’s anger that burns against us because our fathers have not obeyed the words of this book 916 they have not	
22	14	Hilkiah the priest, Ahikam, Acbor, Shaphan and Asaiah went to speak to the prophetess Huldah, who was the wife of Shallum son of Tikvah, the son of Harhas, keeper of the wardrobe. She lived in Jerusalem, in the Second District. 
22	15	She said to them, This is what the LORD, the God of Israel, says	 Tell the man who sent you to me, 
22	16	`This is what the LORD says	 I am going to bring disaster on this place and its people, according to everything written in the book the king of Judah has read. 
22	17	Because they have forsaken me and burned incense to other gods and provoked me to anger by all the idols their hands have made, [Or by everything they have done] my anger will burn against this place and will not be quenched.’ 
22	18	Tell the king of Judah, who sent you to enquire of the LORD, `This is what the LORD, the God of Israel, says concerning the words you heard	 
22	19	Because your heart was responsive and you humbled yourself before the LORD when you heard what I have spoken against this place and its people, that they would become accursed and laid waste, and because you tore your robes and wept in my presence, I h 
22	20	Therefore I will gather you to your fathers, and you will be buried in peace. Your eyes will not see all the disaster I am going to bring on this place.’ So they took her answer back to the king.