26	1	The divisions of the gatekeepers	 From the Korahites	 Meshelemiah son of Kore, one of the sons of Asaph. 
26	2	Meshelemiah had sons	 Zechariah the firstborn, Jediael the second, Zebadiah the third, Jathniel the fourth, 
26	3	Elam the fifth, Jehohanan the sixth and Eliehoenai the seventh. 
26	4	Obed-Edom also had sons	 Shemaiah the firstborn, Jehozabad the second, Joah the third, Sacar the fourth, Nethanel the fifth, 
26	5	Ammiel the sixth, Issachar the seventh and Peullethai the eighth. (For God had blessed Obed-Edom.) 
26	6	His son Shemaiah also had sons, who were leaders in their father’s family because they were very capable men. 
26	7	The sons of Shemaiah	 Othni, Rephael, Obed and Elzabad his relatives Elihu and Semakiah were also able men. 
26	8	All these were descendants of Obed-Edom they and their sons and their relatives were capable men with the strength to do the work	descendants of Obed-Edom, 62 in all. 
26	9	Meshelemiah had sons and relatives, who were able men	18 in all. 
26	10	Hosah the Merarite had sons	 Shimri the first (although he was not the firstborn, his father had appointed him the first), 
26	11	Hilkiah the second, Tabaliah the third and Zechariah the fourth. The sons and relatives of Hosah were 13 in all. 
26	12	These divisions of the gatekeepers, through their chief men, had duties for ministering in the temple of the LORD, just as their relatives had. 
26	13	Lots were cast for each gate, according to their families, young and old alike. 
26	14	The lot for the East Gate fell to Shelemiah. [A variant of Meshelemiah] Then lots were cast for his son Zechariah, a wise counsellor, and the lot for the North Gate fell to him. 
26	15	The lot for the South Gate fell to Obed-Edom, and the lot for the storehouse fell to his sons. 
26	16	The lots for the West Gate and the Shalleketh Gate on the upper road fell to Shuppim and Hosah. Guard was alongside guard	 
26	17	There were six Levites a day on the east, four a day on the north, four a day on the south and two at a time at the storehouse. 
26	18	As for the court to the west, there were four at the road and two at the court itself. 
26	19	These were the divisions of the gatekeepers who were descendants of Korah and Merari. 
26	20	Their fellow Levites were [Septuagint Hebrew As for the Levites, Ahijah was] in charge of the treasuries of the house of God and the treasuries for the dedicated things. 
26	21	The descendants of Ladan, who were Gershonites through Ladan and who were heads of families belonging to Ladan the Gershonite, were Jehieli, 
26	22	the sons of Jehieli, Zetham and his brother Joel. They were in charge of the treasuries of the temple of the LORD. 
26	23	From the Amramites, the Izharites, the Hebronites and the Uzzielites	 
26	24	Shubael, a descendant of Gershom son of Moses, was the officer in charge of the treasuries. 
26	25	His relatives through Eliezer	 Rehabiah his son, Jeshaiah his son, Joram his son, Zicri his son and Shelomith his son. 
26	26	Shelomith and his relatives were in charge of all the treasuries for the things dedicated by King David, by the heads of families who were the commanders of thousands and commanders of hundreds, and by the other army commanders. 
26	27	Some of the plunder taken in battle they dedicated for the repair of the temple of the LORD. 
26	28	And everything dedicated by Samuel the seer and by Saul son of Kish, Abner son of Ner and Joab son of Zeruiah, and all the other dedicated things were in the care of Shelomith and his relatives. 
26	29	From the Izharites	 Kenaniah and his sons were assigned duties away from the temple, as officials and judges over Israel. 
26	30	From the Hebronites	 Hashabiah and his relatives	seventeen hundred able men	were responsible in Israel west of the Jordan for all the work of the LORD and for the king’s service. 
26	31	As for the Hebronites, Jeriah was their chief according to the genealogical records of their families. In the fortieth year of David’s reign a search was made in the records, and capable men among the Hebronites were found at Jazer in Gilead. 
26	32	Jeriah had two thousand seven hundred relatives, who were able men and heads of families, and King David put them in charge of the Reubenites, the Gadites and the half-tribe of Manasseh for every matter pertaining to God and for the affairs of the king