2	1	These were the sons of Israel	 Reuben, Simeon, Levi, Judah, Issachar, Zebulun, 
2	2	Dan, Joseph, Benjamin, Naphtali, Gad and Asher. 
2	3	The sons of Judah	 Er, Onan and Shelah. These three were born to him by a Canaanite woman, the daughter of Shua. Er, Judah’s firstborn, was wicked in the LORD’s sight so the LORD put him to death. 
2	4	Tamar, Judah’s daughter-in-law, bore him Perez and Zerah. Judah had five sons in all. 
2	5	The sons of Perez	 Hezron and Hamul. 
2	6	The sons of Zerah	 Zimri, Ethan, Heman, Calcol and Darda	[Many Hebrew manuscripts, some Septuagint manuscripts and Syriac (see also 1 Kings 4	31) most Hebrew manuscripts Dara] five in all. 
2	7	The son of Carmi	 Achar, [Achar means trouble Achar is called Achan in Joshua.] who brought trouble on Israel by violating the ban on taking devoted things. [The Hebrew term refers to the irrevocable giving over of things or persons to the LORD, often b 
2	8	The son of Ethan	 Azariah. 
2	9	The sons born to Hezron were	 Jerahmeel, Ram and Caleb. [Hebrew Kelubai, a variant of Caleb] 
2	10	Ram was the father of Amminadab, and Amminadab the father of Nahshon, the leader of the people of Judah. 
2	11	Nahshon was the father of Salmon, [Septuagint (see also Ruth 4	21) Hebrew Salma] Salmon the father of Boaz, 
2	12	Boaz the father of Obed and Obed the father of Jesse. 
2	13	Jesse was the father of Eliab his firstborn the second son was Abinadab, the third Shimea, 
2	14	the fourth Nethanel, the fifth Raddai, 
2	15	the sixth Ozem and the seventh David. 
2	16	Their sisters were Zeruiah and Abigail. Zeruiah’s three sons were Abishai, Joab and Asahel. 
2	17	Abigail was the mother of Amasa, whose father was Jether the Ishmaelite. 
2	18	Caleb son of Hezron had children by his wife Azubah (and by Jerioth). These were her sons	 Jesher, Shobab and Ardon. 
2	19	When Azubah died, Caleb married Ephrath, who bore him Hur. 
2	20	Hur was the father of Uri, and Uri the father of Bezalel. 
2	21	Later, Hezron lay with the daughter of Makir the father of Gilead (he had married her when he was sixty years old), and she bore him Segub. 
2	22	Segub was the father of Jair, who controlled twenty-three towns in Gilead. 
2	23	(But Geshur and Aram captured Havvoth Jair, [Or captured the settlements of Jair] as well as Kenath with its surrounding settlements	sixty towns.) All these were descendants of Makir the father of Gilead. 
2	24	After Hezron died in Caleb Ephrathah, Abijah the wife of Hezron bore him Ashhur the father [Father may mean civic leader or military leader also in verses 42, 45, 49-52 and possibly elsewhere.] of Tekoa. 
2	25	The sons of Jerahmeel the firstborn of Hezron	 Ram his firstborn, Bunah, Oren, Ozem and [Or Oren and Ozem, by] Ahijah. 
2	26	Jerahmeel had another wife, whose name was Atarah she was the mother of Onam. 
2	27	The sons of Ram the firstborn of Jerahmeel	 Maaz, Jamin and Eker. 
2	28	The sons of Onam	 Shammai and Jada. The sons of Shammai	 Nadab and Abishur. 
2	29	Abishur’s wife was named Abihail, who bore him Ahban and Molid. 
2	30	The sons of Nadab	 Seled and Appaim. Seled died without children. 
2	31	The son of Appaim	 Ishi, who was the father of Sheshan. Sheshan was the father of Ahlai. 
2	32	The sons of Jada, Shammai’s brother	 Jether and Jonathan. Jether died without children. 
2	33	The sons of Jonathan	 Peleth and Zaza. These were the descendants of Jerahmeel. 
2	34	Sheshan had no sons	only daughters. He had an Egyptian servant named Jarha. 
2	35	Sheshan gave his daughter in marriage to his servant Jarha, and she bore him Attai. 
2	36	Attai was the father of Nathan, Nathan the father of Zabad, 
2	37	Zabad the father of Ephlal, Ephlal the father of Obed, 
2	38	Obed the father of Jehu, Jehu the father of Azariah, 
2	39	Azariah the father of Helez, Helez the father of Eleasah, 
2	40	Eleasah the father of Sismai, Sismai the father of Shallum, 
2	41	Shallum the father of Jekamiah, and Jekamiah the father of Elishama. 
2	42	The sons of Caleb the brother of Jerahmeel	 Mesha his firstborn, who was the father of Ziph, and his son Mareshah, [The meaning of the Hebrew for this phrase is uncertain.] who was the father of Hebron. 
2	43	The sons of Hebron	 Korah, Tappuah, Rekem and Shema. 
2	44	Shema was the father of Raham, and Raham the father of Jorkeam. Rekem was the father of Shammai. 
2	45	The son of Shammai was Maon, and Maon was the father of Beth Zur. 
2	46	Caleb’s concubine Ephah was the mother of Haran, Moza and Gazez. Haran was the father of Gazez. 
2	47	The sons of Jahdai	 Regem, Jotham, Geshan, Pelet, Ephah and Shaaph. 
2	48	Caleb’s concubine Maacah was the mother of Sheber and Tirhanah. 
2	49	She also gave birth to Shaaph the father of Madmannah and to Sheva the father of Macbenah and Gibea. Caleb’s daughter was Acsah. 
2	50	These were the descendants of Caleb. The sons of Hur the firstborn of Ephrathah	 Shobal the father of Kiriath Jearim, 
2	51	Salma the father of Bethlehem, and Hareph the father of Beth Gader. 
2	52	The descendants of Shobal the father of Kiriath Jearim were	 Haroeh, half the Manahathites, 
2	53	and the clans of Kiriath Jearim	 the Ithrites, Puthites, Shumathites and Mishraites. From these descended the Zorathites and Eshtaolites. 
2	54	The descendants of Salma	 Bethlehem, the Netophathites, Atroth Beth Joab, half the Manahathites, the Zorites, 
2	55	and the clans of scribes [Or of the Sopherites] who lived at Jabez	 the Tirathites, Shimeathites and Sucathites. These are the Kenites who came from Hammath, the father of the house of Recab. [Or father of Beth Recab]