3	1	These were the sons of David born to him in Hebron	 The firstborn was Amnon the son of Ahinoam of Jezreel the second, Daniel the son of Abigail of Carmel 
3	2	the third, Absalom the son of Maacah daughter of Talmai king of Geshur the fourth, Adonijah the son of Haggith 
3	3	the fifth, Shephatiah the son of Abital and the sixth, Ithream, by his wife Eglah. 
3	4	These six were born to David in Hebron, where he reigned for seven years and six months. David reigned in Jerusalem for thirty-three years, 
3	5	and these were the children born to him there	 Shammua, [Hebrew Shimea, a variant of Shammua] Shobab, Nathan and Solomon. These four were by Bathsheba [One Hebrew manuscript and Vulgate (see also Septuagint and 2 Sam. 11	3) most Hebrew manuscripts Baths 
3	6	There were also Ibhar, Elishua, [Two Hebrew manuscripts (see also 2 Sam. 15 and 1 Chron. 14	5) most Hebrew manuscripts Elishama] Eliphelet, 
3	7	Nogah, Nepheg, Japhia, 
3	8	Elishama, Eliada and Eliphelet	nine in all. 
3	9	All these were the sons of David, besides his sons by his concubines. And Tamar was their sister. 
3	10	Solomon’s son was Rehoboam, Abijah his son, Asa his son, Jehoshaphat his son, 
3	11	Jehoram [Hebrew Joram, a variant of Jehoram] his son, Ahaziah his son, Joash his son, 
3	12	Amaziah his son, Azariah his son, Jotham his son, 
3	13	Ahaz his son, Hezekiah his son, Manasseh his son, 
3	14	Amon his son, Josiah his son. 
3	15	The sons of Josiah	 Johanan the firstborn, Jehoiakim the second son, Zedekiah the third, Shallum the fourth. 
3	16	The successors of Jehoiakim	 Jehoiachin [Hebrew Jeconiah, a variant of Jehoiachin also in verse 17] his son, and Zedekiah. 
3	17	The descendants of Jehoiachin the captive	 Shealtiel his son, 
3	18	Malkiram, Pedaiah, Shenazzar, Jekamiah, Hoshama and Nedabiah. 
3	19	The sons of Pedaiah	 Zerubbabel and Shimei. The sons of Zerubbabel	 Meshullam and Hananiah. Shelomith was their sister. 
3	20	There were also five others	 Hashubah, Ohel, Berekiah, Hasadiah and Jushab-Hesed. 
3	21	The descendants of Hananiah	 Pelatiah and Jeshaiah, and the sons of Rephaiah, of Arnan, of Obadiah and of Shecaniah. 
3	22	The descendants of Shecaniah	 Shemaiah and his sons	 Hattush, Igal, Bariah, Neariah and Shaphat	six in all. 
3	23	The sons of Neariah	 Elioenai, Hizkiah and Azrikam	three in all. 
3	24	The sons of Elioenai	 Hodaviah, Eliashib, Pelaiah, Akkub, Johanan, Delaiah and Anani	seven in all.