22	1	Then David said, The house of the LORD God is to be here, and also the altar of burnt offering for Israel. 
22	2	So David gave orders to assemble the aliens living in Israel, and from among them he appointed stonecutters to prepare dressed stone for building the house of God. 
22	3	He provided a large amount of iron to make nails for the doors of the gateways and for the fittings, and more bronze than could be weighed. 
22	4	He also provided more cedar logs than could be counted, for the Sidonians and Tyrians had brought large numbers of them to David. 
22	5	David said, My son Solomon is young and inexperienced, and the house to be built for the LORD should be of great magnificence and fame and splendour in the sight of all the 984 nations. Therefore I will make preparations for it. So David made extensive	
22	6	Then he called for his son Solomon and charged him to build a house for the LORD, the God of Israel. 
22	7	David said to Solomon	 My son, I had it in my heart to build a house for the Name of the LORD my God. 
22	8	But this word of the LORD came to me	 `You have shed much blood and have fought many wars. You are not to build a house for my Name, because you have shed much blood on the earth in my sight. 
22	9	But you will have a son who will be a man of peace and rest, and I will give him rest from all his enemies on every side. His name will be Solomon, [Solomon sounds like and may be derived from the Hebrew for peace.] and I will grant Israel peace and qui 
22	10	He is the one who will build a house for my Name. He will be my son, and I will be his father. And I will establish the throne of his kingdom over Israel for ever.’ 
22	11	Now, my son, the LORD be with you, and may you have success and build the house of the LORD your God, as he said you would. 
22	12	May the LORD give you discretion and understanding when he puts you in command over Israel, so that you may keep the law of the LORD your God. 
22	13	Then you will have success if you are careful to observe the decrees and laws that the LORD gave to Moses for Israel. Be strong and courageous. Do not be afraid or discouraged. 
22	14	I have taken great pains to provide for the temple of the LORD a hundred thousand talents [That is, about 3,395 tons (about 3,450 metric tons)] of gold, a million talents [That is, about 33,950 tons (about 34,500 metric tons)] of silver, quantities of	
22	15	You have many workmen	 stonecutters, masons and carpenters, as well as men skilled in every kind of work 
22	16	in gold and silver, bronze and iron	craftsmen beyond number. Now begin the work, and the LORD be with you. 
22	17	Then David ordered all the leaders of Israel to help his son Solomon. 
22	18	He said to them, Is not the LORD your God with you? And has he not granted you rest on every side? For he has handed the inhabitants of the land over to me, and the land is subject to the LORD and to his people. 
22	19	Now devote your heart and soul to seeking the LORD your God. Begin to build the sanctuary of the LORD God, so that you may bring the ark of the covenant of the LORD and the sacred articles belonging to God into the temple that will be built for the Nam