1	1	Solomon son of David established himself firmly over his kingdom, for the LORD his God was with him and made him exceedingly great. 
1	2	Then Solomon spoke to all Israel	to the commanders of thousands and commanders of hundreds, to the judges and to all the leaders in Israel, the heads of families 
1	3	and Solomon and the whole assembly went to the high place at Gibeon, for God’s Tent of Meeting was there, which Moses the LORD’s servant had made in the desert. 
1	4	Now David had brought up the ark of God from Kiriath Jearim to the place he had prepared for it, because he had pitched a tent for it in Jerusalem. 
1	5	But the bronze altar that Bezalel son of Uri, the son of Hur, had made was in Gibeon in front of the tabernacle of the LORD so Solomon and the assembly enquired of him there. 
1	6	Solomon went up to the bronze altar before the LORD in the Tent of Meeting and offered a thousand burnt offerings on it. 
1	7	That night God appeared to Solomon and said to him, Ask for whatever you want me to give you. 
1	8	Solomon answered God, You have shown great kindness to David my father and have made me king in his place. 
1	9	Now, LORD God, let your promise to my father David be confirmed, for you have made me king over a people who are as numerous as the dust of the earth. 
1	10	Give me wisdom and knowledge, that I may lead this people, for who is able to govern this great people of yours? 
1	11	God said to Solomon, Since this is your heart’s desire and you have not asked for wealth, riches or honour, nor for the death of your enemies, and since you have not asked for a long life but for wisdom and knowledge to govern my people over whom I hav 
1	12	therefore wisdom and knowledge will be given you. And I will also give you wealth, riches and honour, such as no king who was before you ever had and none after you will have. 
1	13	Then Solomon went to Jerusalem from the high place at Gibeon, from before the Tent of Meeting. And he reigned over Israel. 
1	14	Solomon accumulated chariots and horses he had fourteen hundred chariots and twelve thousand horses, [Or charioteers] which he kept in the chariot cities and also with him in Jerusalem. 
1	15	The king made silver and gold as common in Jerusalem as stones, and cedar as plentiful as sycamore-fig trees in the foothills. 
1	16	Solomon’s horses were imported from Egypt	[Or possibly Muzur, a region in Cilicia also in verse 17] and from Kue [Probably Cilicia] the royal merchants purchased them from Kue. 
1	17	They imported a chariot from Egypt for six hundred shekels [That is, about 15 pounds (about 7 kilograms)] of silver, and a horse for a hundred and fifty. [That is, about 3 3/4 pounds (about 1.7 kilograms)] They also exported them to all the kings of th