5	1	Call if you will, but who will answer you? To which of the holy ones will you turn? 
5	2	Resentment kills a fool, and envy slays the simple. 
5	3	I myself have seen a fool taking root, but suddenly his house was cursed. 
5	4	His children are far from safety, crushed in court without a defender.	
5	5	The hungry consume his harvest, taking it even from among thorns, and the thirsty pant after his wealth. 
5	6	For hardship does not spring from the soil, nor does trouble sprout from the ground. 
5	7	Yet man is born to trouble as surely as sparks fly upward. 
5	8	But if it were I, I would appeal to God I would lay my cause before him. 
5	9	He performs wonders that cannot be fathomed, miracles that cannot be counted. 
5	10	He bestows rain on the earth he sends water upon the countryside. 
5	11	The lowly he sets on high, and those who mourn are lifted to safety. 
5	12	He thwarts the plans of the crafty, so that their hands achieve no success. 
5	13	He catches the wise in their craftiness, and the schemes of the wily are swept away. 
5	14	Darkness comes upon them in the daytime at noon they grope as in the night. 
5	15	He saves the needy from the sword in their mouth he saves them from the clutches of the powerful. 
5	16	So the poor have hope, and injustice shuts its mouth. 
5	17	Blessed is the man whom God corrects so do not despise the discipline of the Almighty. [Hebrew Shaddai here and throughout Job] 
5	18	For he wounds, but he also binds up he injures, but his hands also heal. 
5	19	From six calamities he will rescue you in seven no harm will befall you. 
5	20	In famine he will ransom you from death, and in battle from the stroke of the sword.	
5	21	You will be protected from the lash of the tongue, and need not fear when destruction comes. 
5	22	You will laugh at destruction and famine, and need not fear the beasts of the earth. 
5	23	For you will have a covenant with the stones of the field, and the wild animals will be at peace with you. 
5	24	You will know that your tent is secure you will take stock of your property and find nothing missing. 
5	25	You will know that your children will be many, and your descendants like the grass of the earth. 
5	26	You will come to the grave in full vigour, like sheaves gathered in season. 
5	27	We have examined this, and it is true. So hear it and apply it to yourself.