6	1	Then Job replied	 
6	2	If only my anguish could be weighed and all my misery be placed on the scales! 
6	3	It would surely outweigh the sand of the seas	no wonder my words have been impetuous. 
6	4	The arrows of the Almighty are in me, my spirit drinks in their poison God’s terrors are marshalled against me. 
6	5	Does a wild donkey bray when it has grass, or an ox bellow when it has fodder? 
6	6	Is tasteless food eaten without salt, or is there flavour in the white of an egg? [The meaning of the Hebrew for this phrase is uncertain.] 
6	7	I refuse to touch it such food makes me ill.	
6	8	Oh, that I might have my request, that God would grant what I hope for, 
6	9	that God would be willing to crush me, to let loose his hand and cut me off! 
6	10	Then I would still have this consolation	my joy in unrelenting pain	that I had not denied the words of the Holy One. 
6	11	What strength do I have, that I should still hope? What prospects, that I should be patient? 
6	12	Do I have the strength of stone? Is my flesh bronze? 
6	13	Do I have any power to help myself, now that success has been driven from me? 
6	14	A despairing man should have the devotion of his friends, even though he forsakes the fear of the Almighty. 
6	15	But my brothers are as undependable as intermittent streams, as the streams that overflow 
6	16	when darkened by thawing ice and swollen with melting snow, 
6	17	but that cease to flow in the dry season, and in the heat vanish from their channels. 
6	18	Caravans turn aside from their routes they go up into the wasteland and perish. 
6	19	The caravans of Tema look for water, the travelling merchants of Sheba look in hope. 
6	20	They are distressed, because they had been confident they arrive there, only to be disappointed. 
6	21	Now you too have proved to be of no help you see something dreadful and are afraid. 
6	22	Have I ever said, `Give something on my behalf, pay a ransom for me from your wealth,	
6	23	deliver me from the hand of the enemy, ransom me from the clutches of the ruthless’? 
6	24	Teach me, and I will be quiet show me where I have been wrong. 
6	25	How painful are honest words! But what do your arguments prove? 
6	26	Do you mean to correct what I say, and treat the words of a despairing man as wind? 
6	27	You would even cast lots for the fatherless and barter away your friend. 
6	28	But now be so kind as to look at me. Would I lie to your face? 
6	29	Relent, do not be unjust reconsider, for my integrity is at stake. [Or my righteousness still stands] 
6	30	Is there any wickedness on my lips? Can my mouth not discern malice?