40	1	I waited patiently for the LORD he turned to me and heard my cry. 
40	2	He lifted me out of the slimy pit, out of the mud and mire he set my feet on a rock and gave me a firm place to stand. 
40	3	He put a new song in my mouth, a hymn of praise to our God. Many will see and fear and put their trust in the LORD. 
40	4	Blessed is the man who makes the LORD his trust, who does not look to the proud, to those who turn aside to false gods. [Or to falsehood] 
40	5	Many, O LORD my God, are the wonders you have done. The things you planned for us no-one can recount to you were I to speak and tell of them, they would be too many to declare. 
40	6	Sacrifice and offering you did not desire, but my ears you have pierced [Hebrew Septuagint but a body you have prepared for me (see also Symmachus and Theodotion)] [Or opened] burnt offerings and sin offerings you did not require. 
40	7	Then I said, Here I am, I have come	it is written about me in the scroll. [Or come with the scroll written for me] 
40	8	I desire to do your will, O my God your law is within my heart. 
40	9	I proclaim righteousness in the great assembly I do not seal my lips, as you know, O LORD. 
40	10	I do not hide your righteousness in my heart I speak of your faithfulness and salvation. I do not conceal your love and your truth from the great assembly. 
40	11	Do not withhold your mercy from me, O LORD may your love and your truth always protect me. 
40	12	For troubles without number surround me my sins have overtaken me, and I cannot see. They are more than the hairs of my head, and my heart fails within me. 
40	13	Be pleased, O LORD, to save me O LORD, come quickly to help me. 
40	14	May all who seek to take my life be put to shame and confusion may all who desire my ruin be turned back in disgrace. 
40	15	May those who say to me, Aha! Aha! be appalled at their own shame. 
40	16	But may all who seek you rejoice and be glad in you may those who love your salvation always say, The LORD be exalted! 
40	17	Yet I am poor and needy may the Lord think of me. You are my help and my deliverer O my God, do not delay.41 FOR THE DIRECTOR OF MUSIC. A PSALM OF DAVID.