9	1	I will praise you, O LORD, with all my heart I will tell of all your wonders. 
9	2	I will be glad and rejoice in you I will sing praise to your name, O Most High. 
9	3	My enemies turn back they stumble and perish before you. 
9	4	For you have upheld my right and my cause you have sat on your throne, judging righteously. 
9	5	You have rebuked the nations and destroyed the wicked you have blotted out their name for ever and ever. 
9	6	Endless ruin has overtaken the enemy, you have uprooted their cities even the memory of them has perished. 
9	7	The LORD reigns for ever he has established his throne for judgment. 
9	8	He will judge the world in righteousness he will govern the peoples with justice. 
9	9	The LORD is a refuge for the oppressed, a stronghold in times of trouble. 
9	10	Those who know your name will trust in you, for you, LORD, have never forsaken those who seek you. 
9	11	Sing praises to the LORD, enthroned in Zion proclaim among the nations what he has done. 
9	12	For he who avenges blood remembers he does not ignore the cry of the afflicted. 
9	13	LORD, see how my enemies persecute me! Have mercy and lift me up from the gates of death, 
9	14	that I may declare your praises in the gates of the Daughter of Zion and there rejoice in your salvation. 
9	15	The nations have fallen into the pit they have dug their feet are caught in the net they have hidden. 
9	16	The LORD is known by his justice the wicked are ensnared by the work of their hands. Higgaion. [Or Meditation possibly a musical notation] Selah 
9	17	The wicked return to the grave, [Hebrew	 Sheol] all the nations that forget God. 
9	18	But the needy will not always be forgotten, nor the hope of the afflicted ever perish. 
9	19	Arise, O LORD, let not man triumph let the nations be judged in your presence. 
9	20	Strike them with terror, O LORD let the nations know they are but men. Selah10 [PSALMS 9 AND 10 MAY HAVE BEEN ORIGINALLY A SINGLE ACROSTIC POEM, THE STANZAS OF WHICH BEGIN WITH THE SUCCESSIVE LETTERS OF THE HEBREW ALPHABET. IN THE SEPTUAGINT THEY CONST