35	1	Then God said to Jacob, Go up to Bethel and settle there, and build an altar there to God, who appeared to you when you were fleeing from your brother Esau. 
35	2	So Jacob said to his household and to all who were with him, Get rid of the foreign gods you have with you, and purify yourselves and change your clothes. 
35	3	Then come, let us go up to Bethel, where I will build an altar to God, who answered me in the day of my distress and who has been with me wherever I have gone. 
35	4	So they gave Jacob all the foreign gods they had and the rings in their ears, and Jacob buried them under the oak at Shechem. 
35	5	Then they set out, and the terror of God fell upon the towns all around them so that no-one pursued them. 
35	6	Jacob and all the people with him came to Luz (that is, Bethel) in the land of Canaan. 
35	7	There he built an altar, and he called the place El Bethel, [El Bethel means God of Bethel.] because it was there that God revealed himself to him when he was fleeing from his brother. 
35	8	Now Deborah, Rebekah’s nurse, died and was buried under the oak below Bethel. So it was named Allon Bacuth. [Allon Bacuth means oak of weeping.] 
35	9	After Jacob returned from Paddan Aram, [That is, Northwest Mesopotamia also in verse 26] God appeared to him again and blessed him. 
35	10	God said to him, Your name is Jacob, [Jacob means he grasps the heel (figuratively, he deceives).] but you will no longer be called Jacob your name will be Israel. [Israel means he struggles with God.] So he named him Israel. 
35	11	And God said to him, I am God Almighty [Hebrew El- Shaddai] be fruitful and increase in number. A nation and a community of nations will come from you, and kings will come from your body. 
35	12	The land I gave to Abraham and Isaac I also give to you, and I will give this land to your descendants after you. 
35	13	Then God went up from him at the place where he had talked with him. 
35	14	Jacob set up a stone pillar at the place where God had talked with him, and he poured out a drink offering on it he also poured oil on it. 
35	15	Jacob called the place where God had talked with him Bethel. [Bethel means house of God.] 
35	16	Then they moved on from Bethel. While they were still some distance from Ephrath, Rachel began to give birth and had great difficulty. 
35	17	And as she was having great difficulty in childbirth, the midwife said to her, Don’t be afraid, for you have another son. 
35	18	As she breathed her last	for she was dying	she named her son Ben-Oni. [Ben-Oni means son of my trouble.] But his father named him Benjamin. [Benjamin means son of my right hand.] 
35	19	So Rachel died and was buried on the way to Ephrath (that is, Bethlehem). 
35	20	Over her tomb Jacob set up a pillar, and to this day that pillar marks Rachel’s tomb. 
35	21	Israel moved on again and pitched his tent beyond Migdal Eder. 
35	22	While Israel was living in that region, Reuben went in and slept with his father’s concubine Bilhah, and Israel heard of it. Jacob had twelve sons	 
35	23	The sons of Leah	 Reuben the firstborn of Jacob, Simeon, Levi, Judah, Issachar and Zebulun. 
35	24	The sons of Rachel	 Joseph and Benjamin. 
35	25	The sons of Rachel’s maidservant Bilhah	 Dan and Naphtali. 
35	26	The sons of Leah’s maidservant Zilpah	 Gad and Asher. These were the sons of Jacob, who were born to him in Paddan Aram. 
35	27	Jacob came home to his father Isaac in Mamre, near Kiriath Arba (that is, Hebron), where Abraham and Isaac had stayed. 
35	28	Isaac lived a hundred and eighty years. 
35	29	Then he breathed his last and died and was gathered to his people, old and full of years. And his sons Esau and Jacob buried him.