15	1	After this, the word of the LORD came to Abram in a vision	 Do not be afraid, Abram. I am your shield, [Or sovereign] 32 your very great reward. [Or shield your reward will be very great] 
15	2	But Abram said, O Sovereign LORD, what can you give me since I remain childless and the one who will inherit [The meaning of the Hebrew for this phrase is uncertain.] my estate is Eliezer of Damascus? 
15	3	And Abram said, You have given me no children so a servant in my household will be my heir. 
15	4	Then the word of the LORD came to him	 This man will not be your heir, but a son coming from your own body will be your heir. 
15	5	He took him outside and said, Look up at the heavens and count the stars	if indeed you can count them. Then he said to him, So shall your offspring be. 
15	6	Abram believed the LORD, and he credited it to him as righteousness. 
15	7	He also said to him, I am the LORD, who brought you out of Ur of the Chaldeans to give you this land to take possession of it. 
15	8	But Abram said, O Sovereign LORD, how can I know that I shall gain possession of it? 
15	9	So the LORD said to him, Bring me a heifer, a goat and a ram, each three years old, along with a dove and a young pigeon. 
15	10	Abram brought all these to him, cut them in two and arranged the halves opposite each other the birds, however, he did not cut in half. 
15	11	Then birds of prey came down on the carcasses, but Abram drove them away. 
15	12	As the sun was setting, Abram fell into a deep sleep, and a thick and dreadful darkness came over him.	
15	13	Then the LORD said to him, Know for certain that your descendants will be strangers in a country not their own, and they will be enslaved and ill-treated four hundred years. 
15	14	But I will punish the nation they serve as slaves, and afterwards they will come out with great possessions. 
15	15	You, however, will go to your fathers in peace and be buried at a good old age. 
15	16	In the fourth generation your descendants will come back here, for the sin of the Amorites has not yet reached its full measure. 
15	17	When the sun had set and darkness had fallen, a smoking brazier with a blazing torch appeared and passed between the pieces. 
15	18	On that day the LORD made a covenant with Abram and said, To your descendants I give this land, from the river [Or Wadi] of Egypt to the great river, the Euphrates	
15	19	the land of the Kenites, Kenizzites, Kadmonites, 
15	20	Hittites, Perizzites, Rephaites, 
15	21	Amorites, Canaanites, Girgashites and Jebusites.