7	1	A good name is better than fine perfume, and the day of death better than the day of birth. 
7	2	It is better to go to a house of mourning than to go to a house of feasting, for death is the destiny of every man the living should take this to heart. 
7	3	Sorrow is better than laughter, because a sad face is good for the heart. 
7	4	The heart of the wise is in the house of mourning, but the heart of fools is in the house of pleasure. 
7	5	It is better to heed a wise man’s rebuke than to listen to the song of fools. 
7	6	Like the crackling of thorns under the pot, so is the laughter of fools. This too is meaningless. 
7	7	Extortion turns a wise man into a fool, and a bribe corrupts the heart. 
7	8	The end of a matter is better than its beginning, and patience is better than pride. 
7	9	Do not be quickly provoked in your spirit, for anger resides in the lap of fools. 
7	10	Do not say, Why were the old days better than these? For it is not wise to ask such questions. 
7	11	Wisdom, like an inheritance, is a good thing and benefits those who see the sun. 
7	12	Wisdom is a shelter as money is a shelter, but the advantage of knowledge is this	 that wisdom preserves the life of its possessor. 
7	13	Consider what God has done	 Who can straighten what he has made crooked? 
7	14	When times are good, be happy but when times are bad, consider	 God has made the one as well as the other. Therefore, a man cannot discover anything about his future. 
7	15	In this meaningless life of mine I have seen both of these	 a righteous man perishing in his righteousness, and a wicked man living long in his wickedness. 
7	16	Do not be over-righteous, neither be overwise	why destroy yourself? 
7	17	Do not be overwicked, and do not be a fool	why die before your time? 
7	18	It is good to grasp the one and not let go of the other. The man who fears God will avoid all extremes. [Or will follow them both] 
7	19	Wisdom makes one wise man more powerful than ten rulers in a city. 
7	20	There is not a righteous man on earth who does what is right and never sins. 
7	21	Do not pay attention to every word people say, or you may hear your servant cursing you 
7	22	for you know in your heart that many times you yourself have cursed others. 
7	23	All this I tested by wisdom and I said, I am determined to be wise	but this was beyond me. 
7	24	Whatever wisdom may be, it is far off and most profound	who can discover it? 
7	25	So I turned my mind to understand, to investigate and to search out wisdom and the scheme of things and to understand the stupidity of wickedness and the madness of folly. 
7	26	I find more bitter than death the woman who is a snare, whose heart is a trap and whose hands are chains. The man who pleases God will escape her, but the sinner she will ensnare. 
7	27	Look, says the Teacher, [Or leader of the assembly] this is what I have discovered	 Adding one thing to another to discover the scheme of things 
7	28	while I was still searching but not finding	I found one upright man among a thousand, but not one upright woman among them all. 
7	29	This only have I found	 God made mankind upright, but men have gone in search of many schemes.