63	1	Who is this coming from Edom, from Bozrah, with his garments stained crimson? Who is this, robed in splendour, striding forward in the greatness of his strength? It is I, speaking in righteousness, mighty to save. 
63	2	Why are your garments red, like those of one treading the winepress? 
63	3	I have trodden the winepress alone from the nations no-one was with me. I trampled them in my anger and trod them down in my wrath their blood spattered my garments, and I stained all my clothing. 
63	4	For the day of vengeance was in my heart, and the year of my redemption has come. 
63	5	I looked, but there was no-one to help, I was appalled that no-one gave support so my own arm worked salvation for me, and my own wrath sustained me. 
63	6	I trampled the nations in my anger in my wrath I made them drunk and poured their blood on the ground. 
63	7	I will tell of the kindnesses of the LORD, the deeds for which he is to be praised, according to all the LORD has done for us	yes, the many good things he has done for the house of Israel, according to his compassion and many kindnesses. 
63	8	He said, Surely they are my people, sons who will not be false to me and so he became their Saviour. 
63	9	In all their distress he too was distressed, and the angel of his presence saved them. In his love and mercy he redeemed them he lifted them up and carried them all the days of old. 
63	10	Yet they rebelled and grieved his Holy Spirit. So he turned and became their enemy and he himself fought against them. 
63	11	Then his people recalled [Or But may he recall] the days of old, the days of Moses and his people	where is he who brought them through the sea, with the shepherd of his flock? Where is he who set his Holy Spirit among them, 
63	12	who sent his glorious arm of power to be at Moses’ right hand, who divided the waters before them, to gain for himself everlasting renown, 
63	13	who led them through the depths? Like a horse in open country, they did not stumble 
63	14	like cattle that go down to the plain, they were given rest by the Spirit of the LORD. This is how you guided your people to make for yourself a glorious name. 
63	15	Look down from heaven and see from your lofty throne, holy and glorious. Where are your zeal and your might? Your tenderness and compassion are withheld from us. 
63	16	But you are our Father, though Abraham does not know us or Israel acknowledge us you, O LORD, are our Father, our Redeemer from of old is your name. 
63	17	Why, O LORD, do you make us wander from your ways and harden our hearts so we do not revere you? Return for the sake of your servants, the tribes that are your inheritance. 
63	18	For a little while your people possessed your holy place, but now our enemies have trampled down your sanctuary. 
63	19	We are yours from of old but you have not ruled over them, they have not been called by your name. [Or We are like those you have never ruled, like those never called by your name]