27	1	In that day, the LORD will punish with his sword, his fierce, great and powerful sword, Leviathan the gliding serpent, Leviathan the coiling serpent he will slay the monster of the sea. 
27	2	In that Day	sing about a fruitful vineyard	 
27	3	I, the LORD, watch over it I water it continually. I guard it day and night so that no-one may harm it. 
27	4	I am not angry. If only there were briers and thorns confronting me! I would march against them in battle I would set them all on fire. 
27	5	Or else let them come to me for refuge let them make peace with me, yes, let them make peace with me. 
27	6	In days to come Jacob will take root, Israel will bud and blossom and fill all the world with fruit. 
27	7	Has the LORD struck her as he struck down those who struck her? Has she been killed as those were killed who killed her? 
27	8	By warfare [See Septuagint the meaning of the Hebrew for this word is uncertain.] and exile you contend with her	with his fierce blast he drives her out, as on a day the east wind blows. 
27	9	By this, then, will Jacob’s guilt be atoned for, and this will be the full fruitage of the removal of his sin	 When he makes all the altar stones to be like chalk stones crushed to pieces, no Asherah poles [That is, symbols of the goddess Asherah] or in 
27	10	The fortified city stands desolate, an abandoned settlement, forsaken like the desert there the calves graze, there they lie down they strip its branches bare. 
27	11	When its twigs are dry, they are broken off and women come and make fires with them. For this is a people without 1571 understanding so their Maker has no compassion on them, and their Creator shows them no favour. 
27	12	In that day the LORD will thresh from the flowing Euphrates [Hebrew	 River] to the Wadi of Egypt, and you, O Israelites, will be gathered up one by one. 
27	13	And in that day a great trumpet will sound. Those who were perishing in Assyria and those who were exiled in Egypt will come and worship the LORD on the holy mountain in Jerusalem.