66	1	This is what the LORD says	 Heaven is my throne, and the earth is my footstool. Where is the house you will build for me? Where will my resting place be? 
66	2	Has not my hand made all these things, and so they came into being? declares the LORD. This is the one I esteem	 he who is humble and contrite in spirit, and trembles at my word. 
66	3	But whoever sacrifices a bull is like one who kills a man, and whoever offers a lamb, like one who breaks a dog’s neck whoever makes a grain offering is like one who presents pig’s blood, and whoever burns memorial incense, like one who worships an idol 
66	4	so I also will choose harsh treatment for them and will bring upon them what they dread. For when I called, no-one answered, when I spoke, no-one listened. They did evil in my sight and chose what displeases me. 
66	5	Hear the word of the LORD, you who tremble at his word Your brothers who hate you, and exclude you because of my name, have said, `Let the LORD be glorified, that we may see your joy!’ Yet they will be put to shame. 
66	6	Hear that uproar from the city, hear that noise from the temple! It is the sound of the LORD repaying his enemies all they deserve. 
66	7	Before she goes into labour, she gives birth before the pains come upon her, she delivers a son. 
66	8	Who has ever heard of such a thing? Who has ever seen such things? Can a country be born in a day or a nation be brought forth in a moment? Yet no sooner is Zion in labour than she gives birth to her children. 
66	9	Do I bring to the moment of birth and not give delivery? says the LORD. Do I close up the womb when I bring to delivery? says your God. 
66	10	Rejoice with Jerusalem and be glad for her, all you who love her rejoice greatly with her, all you who mourn over her. 
66	11	For you will nurse and be satisfied at her comforting breasts you will drink deeply and delight in her overflowing abundance. 
66	12	For this is what the LORD says	 I will extend peace to her like a river, and the wealth of nations like a flooding stream you will nurse and be carried on her arm and dandled on her knees. 
66	13	As a mother comforts her child, so will I comfort you and you will be comforted over Jerusalem. 
66	14	When you see this, your heart will rejoice and you will flourish like grass the hand of the LORD will be made known to his servants, but his fury will be shown to his foes. 
66	15	See, the LORD is coming with fire, and his chariots are like a whirlwind he will bring down his anger with fury, and his rebuke with flames of fire. 
66	16	For with fire and with his sword the LORD will execute judgment upon all men, and many will be those slain by the LORD. 
66	17	Those who consecrate and purify themselves to go into the gardens, following the one in the midst of [Or gardens behind one of your temples, and] those who eat the flesh of pigs and rats and other abominable things	they will meet their end together, d 
66	18	And I, because of their actions and their imaginations, am about to come [The meaning of the Hebrew for this clause is uncertain.] and gather all nations and tongues, and they will come and see my glory. 
66	19	I will set a sign among them, and I will send some of those who survive to the nations	to Tarshish, to the Libyans [Some Septuagint manuscripts Put (Libyans) Hebrew	 Pul] and Lydians (famous as archers), to Tubal and Greece, and to the distant islands 
66	20	And they will bring all your brothers, from all the nations, to my holy mountain in Jerusalem as an offering to the LORD	on horses, in chariots and wagons, and on mules and camels, says the LORD. They will bring them, as the Israelites bring their gra 
66	21	And I will select some of them also to be priests and Levites, says the LORD. 
66	22	As the new heavens and the new earth that I make will endure before me, declares the LORD, so will your name and descendants endure. 
66	23	From one New Moon to another and from one Sabbath to another, all mankind will come and bow down before me, says the LORD. 
66	24	And they will go out and look upon the dead bodies of those who rebelled against me their worm will not die, nor will their fire be quenched, and they will be loathsome to all mankind. 1648 JEREMIAH