33	1	Woe to you, O destroyer, you who have not been destroyed! Woe to you, O traitor, you who have not been betrayed! When you stop destroying, you will be destroyed when you stop betraying, you will be betrayed. 
33	2	LORD, be gracious to us we long for you. Be our strength every morning, our salvation in time of distress. 
33	3	At the thunder of your voice, the peoples flee when you rise up, the nations scatter. 
33	4	Your plunder, O nations, is harvested as by young locusts like a swarm of locusts men pounce on it. 
33	5	The LORD is exalted, for he dwells on high he will fill Zion with justice and righteousness. 
33	6	He will be the sure foundation for your times, a rich store of salvation and wisdom and knowledge the fear of the LORD is the key to this treasure. [Or is a treasure from him] 
33	7	Look, their brave men cry aloud in the streets the envoys of peace weep bitterly. 
33	8	The highways are deserted, no travellers are on the roads. The treaty is broken, its witnesses [Dead Sea Scrolls Masoretic Text the cities] are despised, no-one is respected. 
33	9	The land mourns [Or dries up] and wastes away, Lebanon is ashamed and withers Sharon is like the Arabah, and Bashan and Carmel drop their leaves. 
33	10	Now will I arise, says the LORD. Now will I be exalted now will I be lifted up. 
33	11	You conceive chaff, you give birth to straw your breath is a fire that consumes you. 
33	12	The peoples will be burned as if to lime like cut thornbushes they will be set ablaze. 
33	13	You who are far away, hear what I have done you who are near, acknowledge my power! 
33	14	The sinners in Zion are terrified trembling grips the godless	 Who of us can dwell with the consuming fire? Who of us can dwell with everlasting burning? 
33	15	He who walks righteously and speaks what is right, who rejects gain from extortion and keeps his hand from accepting 1583 bribes, who stops his ears against plots of murder and shuts his eyes against contemplating evil 
33	16	this is the man who will dwell on the heights, whose refuge will be the mountain fortress. His bread will be supplied, and water will not fail him. 
33	17	Your eyes will see the king in his beauty and view a land that stretches afar. 
33	18	In your thoughts you will ponder the former terror	 Where is that chief officer? Where is the one who took the revenue? Where is the officer in charge of the towers? 
33	19	You will see those arrogant people no more, those people of an obscure speech, with their strange, incomprehensible tongue. 
33	20	Look upon Zion, the city of our festivals your eyes will see Jerusalem, a peaceful abode, a tent that will not be moved its stakes will never be pulled up, nor any of its ropes broken. 
33	21	There the LORD will be our Mighty One. It will be like a place of broad rivers and streams. No galley with oars will ride them, no mighty ship will sail them. 
33	22	For the LORD is our judge, the LORD is our lawgiver, the LORD is our king it is he who will save us. 
33	23	Your rigging hangs loose	 The mast is not held secure, the sail is not spread. Then an abundance of spoils will be divided and even the lame will carry off plunder. 
33	24	No-one living in Zion will say, I am ill and the sins of those who dwell there will be forgiven.