45	1	This is what the LORD says to his anointed, to Cyrus, whose right hand I take hold of to subdue nations before him and to strip kings of their armour, to open doors before him so that gates will not be shut	 
45	2	I will go before you and will level the mountains [Dead Sea Scrolls and Septuagint the meaning of the word in the Masoretic Text is uncertain.] I will break down gates of bronze and cut through bars of iron. 
45	3	I will give you the treasures of darkness, riches stored in secret places, so that you may know that I am the LORD, the God of Israel, who summons you by name. 
45	4	For the sake of Jacob my servant, of Israel my chosen, I summon you by name and bestow on you a title of honour, though you do not acknowledge me. 
45	5	I am the LORD, and there is no other apart from me there is no God. I will strengthen you, though you have not acknowledged me, 
45	6	so that from the rising of the sun to the place of its setting men may know there is none besides me. I am the LORD, and there is no other. 
45	7	I form the light and create darkness, I bring prosperity and create disaster I, the LORD, do all these things. 
45	8	You heavens above, rain down righteousness let the clouds shower it down. Let the earth open wide, let salvation spring up, let righteousness grow with it I, the LORD, have created it. 
45	9	Woe to him who quarrels with his Maker, to him who is but a potsherd among the potsherds on the ground. Does the clay say to the potter, `What are you making?’ Does your work say, `He has no hands’? 
45	10	Woe to him who says to his father, `What have you begotten?’ or to his mother, `What have you brought to birth?’ 
45	11	This is what the LORD says	the Holy One of Israel, and its Maker	 Concerning things to come, do you question me about my children, or give me orders about the work of my hands? 
45	12	It is I who made the earth and created mankind upon it. My own hands stretched out the heavens I marshalled their starry hosts. 
45	13	I will raise up Cyrus [Hebrew	 him] in my righteousness	 I will make all his ways straight. He will rebuild my city and set my exiles free, but not for a price or reward, says the LORD Almighty. 
45	14	This is what the LORD says	 The products of Egypt and the merchandise of Cush, [That is, the upper Nile region] and those tall Sabeans	they will come over to you and will be yours they will trudge behind you, coming over to you in chains. They will bo 
45	15	Truly you are a God who hides himself, O God and Saviour of Israel. 
45	16	All the makers of idols will be put to shame and disgraced they will go off into disgrace together. 
45	17	But Israel will be saved by the LORD with an everlasting salvation you will never be put to shame or disgraced, to ages everlasting. 
45	18	For this is what the LORD says	he who created the heavens, he is God he who fashioned and made the earth, he founded it he did not create it to be empty, but formed it to be inhabited	he says	 I am the LORD, and there is no other. 
45	19	I have not spoken in secret, from somewhere in a land of darkness I have not said to Jacob’s descendants, `Seek me in vain.’ I, the LORD, speak the truth I declare what is right. 
45	20	Gather together and come assemble, you fugitives from the nations. Ignorant are those who carry about idols of wood, who pray to gods that cannot save. 
45	21	Declare what is to be, present it	let them take counsel together. Who foretold this long ago, who declared it from the distant past? Was it not I, the LORD? And there is no God apart from me, a righteous God and a Saviour there is none but me. 
45	22	Turn to me and be saved, all you ends of the earth for I am God, and there is no other. 
45	23	By myself I have sworn, my mouth has uttered in all integrity a word that will not be revoked	 Before me every knee will bow by me every tongue will swear. 
45	24	They will say of me, `In the LORD alone are righteousness and strength.’ All who have raged against him will come to him and be put to shame. 
45	25	But in the LORD all the descendants of Israel will be found righteous and will exult.