34	1	Come near, you nations, and listen pay attention, you peoples! Let the earth hear, and all that is in it, the world, and all that comes out of it! 
34	2	The LORD is angry with all nations his wrath is upon all their armies. He will totally destroy [The Hebrew term refers to the irrevocable giving over of things or persons to the LORD, often by totally destroying them also in verse 5.] them, he will give 
34	3	Their slain will be thrown out, their dead bodies will send up a stench the mountains will be soaked with their blood. 
34	4	All the stars of the heavens will be dissolved and the sky rolled up like a scroll all the starry host will fall like withered leaves from the vine, like shrivelled figs from the fig-tree. 
34	5	My sword has drunk its fill in the heavens see, it descends in judgment on Edom, the people I have totally destroyed. 
34	6	The sword of the LORD is bathed in blood, it is covered with fat	the blood of lambs and goats, fat from the kidneys of rams. For the LORD has a sacrifice in Bozrah and a great slaughter in Edom. 
34	7	And the wild oxen will fall with them, the bull calves and the great bulls. Their land will be drenched with blood, and the dust will be soaked with fat. 
34	8	For the LORD has a day of vengeance, a year of retribution, to uphold Zion’s cause. 
34	9	Edom’s streams will be turned into pitch, her dust into burning sulphur her land will become blazing pitch! 
34	10	It will not be quenched night and day its smoke will rise for ever. From generation to generation it will lie desolate noone will ever pass through it again. 
34	11	The desert owl [The precise identification of these birds is uncertain.] and screech owl [The precise identification of these birds is uncertain.] will possess it the great owl [The precise identification of these birds is uncertain.] and the raven wil 
34	12	Her nobles will have nothing there to be called a kingdom, all her princes will vanish away. 
34	13	Thorns will overrun her citadels, nettles and brambles her strongholds. She will become a haunt for jackals, a home for owls. 
34	14	Desert creatures will meet with hyenas, and wild goats will bleat to each other there the night creatures will also repose and find for themselves places of rest. 
34	15	The owl will nest there and lay eggs, she will hatch them, and care for her young under the shadow of her wings there also the falcons will gather, each with its mate. 
34	16	Look in the scroll of the LORD and read	 None of these will be missing, not one will lack her mate. For it is his mouth that has given the order, and his Spirit will gather them together. 
34	17	He allots their portions his hand distributes them by measure. They will possess it for ever and dwell there from generation to generation.