3	1	See now, the Lord, the LORD Almighty, is about to take from Jerusalem and Judah both supply and support	 all supplies of food and all supplies of water, 
3	2	the hero and warrior, the judge and prophet, the soothsayer and elder, 
3	3	the captain of fifty and man of rank, the counsellor, skilled craftsman and clever enchanter. 
3	4	I will make boys their officials mere children will govern them. 
3	5	People will oppress each other	man against man, neighbour against neighbour. The young will rise up against the old, the base against the honourable. 
3	6	A man will seize one of his brothers at his father’s home, and say, You have a cloak, you be our leader take charge of this heap of ruins! 
3	7	But in that day he will cry out, I have no remedy. I have no food or clothing in my house do not make me the leader of the people. 
3	8	Jerusalem staggers, Judah is falling their words and deeds are against the LORD, defying his glorious presence. 
3	9	The look on their faces testifies against them they parade their sin like Sodom they do not hide it. Woe to them! They have brought disaster upon themselves. 
3	10	Tell the righteous it will be well with them, for they will enjoy the fruit of their deeds. 
3	11	Woe to the wicked! Disaster is upon them! They will be paid back for what their hands have done. 
3	12	Youths oppress my people, women rule over them. O my people, your guides lead you astray they turn you from the path. 
3	13	The LORD takes his place in court he rises to judge the people. 
3	14	The LORD enters into judgment against the elders and leaders of his people	 It is you who have ruined my vineyard the plunder from the poor is in your houses. 
3	15	What do you mean by crushing my people and grinding the faces of the poor? declares the Lord, the LORD Almighty. 
3	16	The LORD says, The women of Zion are haughty, walking along with outstretched necks, flirting with their eyes, tripping along with mincing steps, with ornaments jingling on their ankles. 
3	17	Therefore the Lord will bring sores on the heads of the women of Zion the LORD will make their scalps bald. 
3	18	In that day the Lord will snatch away their finery	 the bangles and headbands and crescent necklaces, 
3	19	the ear-rings and bracelets and veils, 
3	20	the head-dresses and ankle chains and sashes, the perfume bottles and charms, 
3	21	the signet rings and nose rings, 
3	22	the fine robes and the capes and cloaks, the purses 
3	23	and mirrors, and the linen garments and tiaras and shawls. 
3	24	Instead of fragrance there will be a stench instead of a sash, a rope instead of well-dressed hair, baldness instead of fine clothing, sackcloth instead of beauty, branding. 
3	25	Your men will fall by the sword, your warriors in battle. 
3	26	The gates of Zion will lament and mourn destitute, she will sit on the ground.