11	1	A shoot will come up from the stump of Jesse from his roots a Branch will bear fruit. 
11	2	The Spirit of the LORD will rest on him	the Spirit of wisdom and of understanding, the Spirit of counsel and of power, the Spirit of knowledge and of the fear of the LORD 
11	3	and he will delight in the fear of the LORD. He will not judge by what he sees with his eyes, or decide by what he hears with his ears 
11	4	but with righteousness he will judge the needy, with justice he will give decisions for the poor of the earth. He will strike the earth with the rod of his mouth with the breath of his lips he will slay the wicked. 
11	5	Righteousness will be his belt and faithfulness the sash round his waist. 
11	6	The wolf will live with the lamb, the leopard will lie down with the goat, the calf and the lion and the yearling [Hebrew	 1546 Septuagint lion will feed] together and a little child will lead them. 
11	7	The cow will feed with the bear, their young will lie down together, and the lion will eat straw like the ox. 
11	8	The infant will play near the hole of the cobra, and the young child put his hand into the viper’s nest. 
11	9	They will neither harm nor destroy on all my holy mountain, for the earth will be full of the knowledge of the LORD as the waters cover the sea. 
11	10	In that day the Root of Jesse will stand as a banner for the peoples the nations will rally to him, and his place of rest will be glorious. 
11	11	In that day the Lord will reach out his hand a second time to reclaim the remnant that is left of his people from Assyria, from Lower Egypt, from Upper Egypt, [Hebrew	 from Pathros] from Cush, [That is, the upper Nile region] from Elam, from Babylonia, 
11	12	He will raise a banner for the nations and gather the exiles of Israel he will assemble the scattered people of Judah from the four quarters of the earth. 
11	13	Ephraim’s jealousy will vanish, and Judah’s enemies [Or hostility] will be cut off Ephraim will not be jealous of Judah, nor Judah hostile towards Ephraim. 
11	14	They will swoop down on the slopes of Philistia to the west together they will plunder the people to the east. They will lay hands on Edom and Moab, and the Ammonites will be subject to them. 
11	15	The LORD will dry up the gulf of the Egyptian sea with a scorching wind he will sweep his hand over the Euphrates River. [Hebrew	 the River] He will break it up into seven streams so that men can cross over in sandals. 
11	16	There will be a highway for the remnant of his people that is left from Assyria, as there was for Israel when they came up from Egypt.