39	1	In the ninth year of Zedekiah king of Judah, in the tenth month, Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon marched against Jerusalem with his whole army and laid siege to it. 
39	2	And on the ninth day of the fourth month of Zedekiah’s eleventh year, the city wall was broken through. 
39	3	Then all the officials of the king of Babylon came and took seats in the Middle Gate	 Nergal-Sharezer of Samgar, Nebo- Sarsekim [Or Nergal-Sharezer, Samgar-Nebo, Sarsekim] a chief officer, Nergal-Sharezer a high official and all the other officials of t 
39	4	When Zedekiah king of Judah and all the soldiers saw them, they fled they left the city at night by way of the king’s garden, through the gate between the two walls, and headed towards the Arabah. [Or the Jordan Valley] 
39	5	But the Babylonian [Or Chaldean] army pursued them and overtook Zedekiah in the plains of Jericho. They captured 1744 him and took him to Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon at Riblah in the land of Hamath, where he pronounced sentence on him. 
39	6	There at Riblah the king of Babylon slaughtered the sons of Zedekiah before his eyes and also killed all the nobles of Judah. 
39	7	Then he put out Zedekiah’s eyes and bound him with bronze shackles to take him to Babylon. 
39	8	The Babylonians [Or Chaldeans] set fire to the royal palace and the houses of the people and broke down the walls of Jerusalem. 
39	9	Nebuzaradan commander of the imperial guard carried into exile to Babylon the people who remained in the city, along with those who had gone over to him, and the rest of the people. 
39	10	But Nebuzaradan the commander of the guard left behind in the land of Judah some of the poor people, who owned nothing and at that time he gave them vineyards and fields. 
39	11	Now Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon had given these orders about Jeremiah through Nebuzaradan commander of the imperial guard	 
39	12	Take him and look after him don’t harm him but do for him whatever he asks. 
39	13	So Nebuzaradan the commander of the guard, Nebushazban a chief officer, Nergal-Sharezer a high official and all the other officers of the king of Babylon 
39	14	sent and had Jeremiah taken out of the courtyard of the guard. They handed him over to Gedaliah son of Ahikam, the son of Shaphan, to take him back to his home. So he remained among his own people. 
39	15	While Jeremiah had been confined in the courtyard of the guard, the word of the LORD came to him	 
39	16	Go and tell Ebed-Melech the Cushite, ‘This is what the LORD Almighty, the God of Israel, says	 I am about to fulfil my words against this city through disaster, not prosperity. At that time they will be fulfilled before your eyes. 
39	17	But I will rescue you on that day, declares the LORD you will not be handed over to those you fear. 
39	18	I will save you you will not fall by the sword but will escape with your life, because you trust in me, declares the LORD.’