1	1	[Thisis an acrostic poem, the verses of which begin with the successive letters of the Hebrew alphabet.] How deserted lies the city, once so full of people! How like a widow is she, who once was great among the nations! She who was queen among the provi 
1	2	Bitterly she weeps at night, tears are upon her cheeks. Among all her lovers there is none to comfort her. All her friends have betrayed her they have become her enemies. 
1	3	After affliction and harsh labour, Judah has gone into exile. She dwells among the nations she finds no resting place. All who pursue her have overtaken her in the midst of her distress. 
1	4	The roads to Zion mourn, for no-one comes to her appointed feasts. All her gateways are desolate, her priests groan, her maidens grieve, and she is in bitter anguish. 
1	5	Her foes have become her masters her enemies are at ease. The LORD has brought her grief because of her many sins. Her children have gone into exile, captive before the foe. 
1	6	All the splendour has departed from the Daughter of Zion. Her princes are like deer that find no pasture in weakness they have fled before the pursuer. 
1	7	In the days of her affliction and wandering Jerusalem remembers all the treasures that were hers in days of old. When her people fell into enemy hands, there was no-one to help her. Her enemies looked at her and laughed at her destruction. 
1	8	Jerusalem has sinned greatly and so has become unclean. All who honoured her despise her, for they have seen her nakedness she herself groans and turns away. 
1	9	Her filthiness clung to her skirts she did not consider her future. Her fall was astounding there was none to comfort her. Look, O LORD, on my affliction, for the enemy has triumphed. 
1	10	The enemy laid hands on all her treasures she saw pagan nations enter her sanctuary	those you had forbidden to enter your assembly. 
1	11	All her people groan as they search for bread they barter their treasures for food to keep themselves alive. Look, O LORD, and consider, for I am despised. 
1	12	Is it nothing to you, all you who pass by? Look around and see. Is any suffering like my suffering that was inflicted on me, that the LORD brought on me in the day of his fierce anger? 
1	13	From on high he sent fire, sent it down into my bones. He spread a net for my feet and turned me back. He made me desolate, faint all the day long. 
1	14	My sins have been bound into a yoke [Most Hebrew manuscripts Septuagint He kept watch over my sins] by his hands they were woven together. They have come upon my neck and the Lord has sapped my strength. He has handed me over to those I cannot withstan 
1	15	The Lord has rejected all the warriors in my midst he has summoned an army against me to [Or has set a time for me when he will] crush my young men. In his winepress the Lord has trampled the Virgin Daughter of Judah. 
1	16	This is why I weep and my eyes overflow with tears. No-one is near to comfort me, no-one to restore my spirit. My children are destitute because the enemy has prevailed. 
1	17	Zion stretches out her hands, but there is no-one to comfort her. The LORD has decreed for Jacob that his neighbours 1784 become his foes Jerusalem has become an unclean thing among them. 
1	18	The LORD is righteous, yet I rebelled against his command. Listen, all you peoples look upon my suffering. My young men and maidens have gone into exile. 
1	19	I called to my allies but they betrayed me. My priests and my elders perished in the city while they searched for food to keep themselves alive. 
1	20	See, O LORD, how distressed I am! I am in torment within, and in my heart I am disturbed, for I have been most rebellious. Outside, the sword bereaves inside, there is only death. 
1	21	People have heard my groaning, but there is no-one to comfort me. All my enemies have heard of my distress they rejoice at what you have done. May you bring the day you have announced so that they may become like me. 
1	22	Let all their wickedness come before you deal with them as you have dealt with me because of all my sins. My groans are many and my heart is faint.