40	1	In the twenty-fifth year of our exile, at the beginning of the year, on the tenth of the month, in the fourteenth year after the fall of the city	on that very day the hand of the LORD was upon me and he took me there. 
40	2	In visions of God he took me to the land of Israel and set me on a very high mountain, on whose south side were some buildings that looked like a city. 
40	3	He took me there, and I saw a man whose appearance was like bronze he was standing in the gateway with a linen cord and a measuring rod in his hand. 
40	4	The man said to me, Son of man, look with your eyes and hear with your ears and pay attention to everything I am going to show you, for that is why you have been brought here. Tell the house of Israel everything you see. 
40	5	I saw a wall completely surrounding the temple area. The length of the measuring rod in the man’s hand was six long 1892 cubits, each of which was a cubit [The common cubit was about 1 1/2 feet (about 0.5 metre).] and a handbreadth. [That is, about 3 in 
40	6	Then he went to the gate facing east. He climbed its steps and measured the threshold of the gate it was one rod deep. [Septuagint Hebrew deep, the first threshold, one rod deep] 
40	7	The alcoves for the guards were one rod long and one rod wide, and the projecting walls between the alcoves were five cubits thick. And the threshold of the gate next to the portico facing the temple was one rod deep. 
40	8	Then he measured the portico of the gateway 
40	9	it [Many Hebrew manuscripts, Septuagint, Vulgate and Syriac most Hebrew manuscripts gateway facing the temple it was one rod deep. 9 Then he measured the portico of the gateway it] was eight cubits deep and its jambs were two cubits thick. The portico o 
40	10	Inside the east gate were three alcoves on each side the three had the same measurements, and the faces of the projecting walls on each side had the same measurements. 
40	11	Then he measured the width of the entrance to the gateway it was ten cubits and its length was thirteen cubits. 
40	12	In front of each alcove was a wall one cubit high, and the alcoves were six cubits square. 
40	13	Then he measured the gateway from the top of the rear wall of one alcove to the top of the opposite one the distance was twenty-five cubits from one parapet opening to the opposite one. 
40	14	He measured along the faces of the projecting walls all around the inside of the gateway	sixty cubits. The measurement was up to the portico [Septuagint Hebrew projecting wall] facing the courtyard. [The meaning of the Hebrew for this verse is uncerta 
40	15	The distance from the entrance of the gateway to the far end of its portico was fifty cubits. 
40	16	The alcoves and the projecting walls inside the gateway were surmounted by narrow parapet openings all round, as was the portico the openings all round faced inward. The faces of the projecting walls were decorated with palm trees. 
40	17	Then he brought me into the outer court. There I saw some rooms and a pavement that had been constructed all round the court there were thirty rooms along the pavement. 
40	18	It abutted the sides of the gateways and was as wide as they were long this was the lower pavement. 
40	19	Then he measured the distance from the inside of the lower gateway to the outside of the inner court it was a hundred cubits on the east side as well as on the north. 
40	20	Then he measured the length and width of the gate facing north, leading into the outer court. 
40	21	Its alcoves	three on each side	its projecting walls and its portico had the same measurements as those of the first gateway. It was fifty cubits long and twenty-five cubits wide. 
40	22	Its openings, its portico and its palm tree decorations had the same measurements as those of the gate facing east. Seven steps led up to it, with its portico opposite them. 
40	23	There was a gate to the inner court facing the north gate, just as there was on the east. He measured from one gate to the opposite one it was a hundred cubits. 
40	24	Then he led me to the south side and I saw a gate facing south. He measured its jambs and its portico, and they had the same measurements as the others. 
40	25	The gateway and its portico had narrow openings all round, like the openings of the others. It was fifty cubits long and twenty-five cubits wide. 
40	26	Seven steps led up to it, with its portico opposite them it had palm tree decorations on the faces of the projecting walls on each side. 
40	27	The inner court also had a gate facing south, and he measured from this gate to the outer gate on the south side it was a hundred cubits. 
40	28	Then he brought me into the inner court through the south gate, and he measured the south gate it had the same measurements as the others. 
40	29	Its alcoves, its projecting walls and its portico had the same measurements as the others. The gateway and its portico had openings all round. It was fifty cubits long and twenty-five cubits wide. 
40	30	(The porticoes of the gateways around the inner court were twenty-five cubits wide and five cubits deep.) 
40	31	Its portico faced the outer court palm trees decorated its jambs, and eight steps led up to it. 
40	32	Then he brought me to the inner court on the east side, and he measured the gateway it had the same measurements as the others. 
40	33	Its alcoves, its projecting walls and its portico had the same measurements as the others. The gateway and its portico had openings all round. It was fifty cubits long and twenty-five cubits wide. 
40	34	Its portico faced the outer court palm trees decorated the jambs on either side, and eight steps led up to it. 
40	35	Then he brought me to the north gate and measured it. It had the same measurements as the others, 
40	36	as did its alcoves, its projecting walls and its portico, and it had openings all round. It was fifty cubits long and twentyfive cubits wide. 
40	37	Its portico [Septuagint (see also verses 31 and 34) Hebrew jambs] faced the outer court palm trees decorated the jambs on either side, and eight steps led up to it. 
40	38	A room with a doorway was by the portico in each of the inner gateways, where the burnt offerings were washed. 
40	39	In the portico of the gateway were two tables on each side, on which the burnt offerings, sin offerings and guilt offerings were slaughtered. 
40	40	By the outside wall of the portico of the gateway, near the steps at the entrance to the north gateway were two tables, and on the other side of the steps were two tables. 
40	41	So there were four tables on one side of the gateway and four on the other	eight tables in all	on which the sacrifices were slaughtered. 
40	42	There were also four tables of dressed stone for the burnt offerings, each a cubit and a half long, a cubit and a half wide and a cubit high. On them were placed the utensils for slaughtering the burnt offerings and the other sacrifices. 
40	43	And double-pronged hooks, each a handbreadth long, were attached to the wall all around. The tables were for the flesh of the offerings. 
40	44	Outside the inner gate, within the inner court, were two rooms, one [Septuagint Hebrew were rooms for singers, which were] at the side of the north gate and facing south, and another at the side of the south [Septuagint Hebrew east] gate and facing nor 
40	45	He said to me, The room facing south is for the priests who have charge of the temple, 
40	46	and the room facing north is for the priests who have charge of the altar. These are the sons of Zadok, who are the only Levites who may draw near to the LORD to minister before him. 
40	47	Then he measured the court	 It was square	a hundred cubits long and a hundred cubits wide. And the altar was in front of the temple. 
40	48	He brought me to the portico of the temple and measured the jambs of the portico they were five cubits wide on either side. The width of the entrance was fourteen cubits and its projecting walls were [Septuagint Hebrew entrance was] three cubits wide o 
40	49	The portico was twenty cubits wide, and twelve [Septuagint Hebrew eleven] cubits from front to back. It was reached by a flight of stairs, [Hebrew Septuagint Ten steps led up to it] and there were pillars on each side of the jambs.