47	1	The man brought me back to the entrance of the temple, and I saw water coming out from under the threshold of the temple towards the east (for the temple faced east). The water was coming down from under the south side of the temple, south of the altar. 
47	2	He then brought me out through the north gate and led me round the outside to the outer gate facing east, and the water was flowing from the south side. 
47	3	As the man went eastward with a measuring line in his hand, he measured off a thousand cubits [That is, about 1,500 feet (about 460 metres)] and then led me through water that was ankle-deep. 
47	4	He measured off another thousand cubits and led me through water that was knee-deep. He measured off another thousand and led me through water that was up to the waist. 
47	5	He measured off another thousand, but now it was a river that I could not cross, because the water had risen and was deep enough to swim in	a river that no-one could cross. 
47	6	He asked me, Son of man, do you see this? Then he led me back to the bank of the river. 
47	7	When I arrived there, I saw a great number of trees on each side of the river. 
47	8	He said to me, This water flows towards the eastern region and goes down into the Arabah, [Or the Jordan Valley] where it enters the Sea. [That is, the Dead Sea] When it empties into the Sea, [That is, the Dead Sea] the water there becomes fresh. 
47	9	Swarms of living creatures will live wherever the river flows. There will be large numbers of fish, because this water flows there and makes the salt water fresh so where the river flows everything will live. 
47	10	Fishermen will stand along the shore from En Gedi to En Eglaim there will be places for spreading nets. The fish will be of many kinds	like the fish of the Great Sea. [That is, the Mediterranean also in verses 15, 19 and 20] 
47	11	But the swamps and marshes will not become fresh they will be left for salt. 
47	12	Fruit trees of all kinds will grow on both banks of the river. Their leaves will not wither, nor will their fruit fail. Every month they will bear, because the water from the sanctuary flows to them. Their fruit will serve for food and their leaves for 
47	13	This is what the Sovereign LORD says	 These are the boundaries by which you are to divide the land for an inheritance among the twelve tribes of Israel, with two portions for Joseph. 
47	14	You are to divide it equally among them. Because I swore with uplifted hand to give it to your forefathers, this land will become your inheritance. 
47	15	This is to be the boundary of the land	 On the north side it will run from the Great Sea by the Hethlon road past Lebo [Or past the entrance to] Hamath to Zedad, 
47	16	Berothah [See Septuagint and Ezekiel 1 Hebrew road to go into Zedad, 16 Hamath, Berothah] and Sibraim (which lies on the border between Damascus and Hamath), as far as Hazer Hatticon, which is on the border of Hauran. 
47	17	The boundary will extend from the sea to Hazar Enan, [Hebrew Enon, a variant of Enan] along the northern border of Damascus, with the border of Hamath to the north. This will be the north boundary. 
47	18	On the east side the boundary will run between Hauran and Damascus, along the Jordan between Gilead and the land of Israel, to the eastern sea and as far as Tamar. [Septuagint and Syriac Hebrew Israel. You will measure to the eastern sea] This will be	
47	19	On the south side it will run from Tamar as far as the waters of Meribah Kadesh, then along the Wadi of Egypt to the Great Sea. This will be the south boundary. 
47	20	On the west side, the Great Sea will be the boundary to a point opposite Lebo [Or opposite the entrance to] Hamath. This will be the west boundary. 
47	21	You are to distribute this land among yourselves according to the tribes of Israel. 
47	22	You are to allot it as an inheritance for yourselves and for the aliens who have settled among you and who have children. You are to consider them as native-born Israelites along with you they are to be allotted an inheritance among the tribes of Israe 
47	23	In whatever tribe the alien settles, there you are to give him his inheritance, declares the Sovereign LORD.