22	1	The word of the LORD came to me	 
22	2	Son of man, will you judge her? Will you judge this city of bloodshed? Then confront her with all her detestable practices 
22	3	and say	 ‘This is what the Sovereign LORD says	 O city that brings on herself doom by shedding blood in her midst and defiles herself by making idols, 
22	4	you have become guilty because of the blood you have shed and have become defiled by the idols you have made. You have brought your days to a close, and the end of your years has come. Therefore I will make you an object of scorn to the nations and a la 
22	5	Those who are near and those who are far away will mock you, O infamous city, full of turmoil. 
22	6	‘See how each of the princes of Israel who are in you uses his power to shed blood. 
22	7	In you they have treated father and mother with contempt in you they have oppressed the alien and ill-treated the fatherless and the widow. 
22	8	You have despised my holy things and desecrated my Sabbaths. 
22	9	In you are slanderous men bent on shedding blood in you are those who eat at the mountain shrines and commit lewd acts. 
22	10	In you are those who dishonour their fathers’ bed in you are those who violate women during their period, when they are ceremonially unclean. 
22	11	In you one man commits a detestable offence with his neighbour’s wife, another shamefully defiles his daughter-inlaw, and another violates his sister, his own father’s daughter. 
22	12	In you men accept bribes to shed blood you take usury and excessive interest [Or usury and interest] and make unjust gain from your neighbours by extortion. And you have forgotten me, declares the Sovereign LORD. 
22	13	‘I will surely strike my hands together at the unjust gain you have made and at the blood you have shed in your midst. 
22	14	Will your courage endure or your hands be strong in the day I deal with you? I the LORD have spoken, and I will do it. 
22	15	I will disperse you among the nations and scatter you through the countries and I will put an end to your uncleanness. 
22	16	When you have been defiled [Or When I have allotted you your inheritance] in the eyes of the nations, you will know that I am the LORD.’ 
22	17	Then the word of the LORD came to me	 
22	18	Son of man, the house of Israel has become dross to me all of them are the copper, tin, iron and lead left inside a furnace. They are but the dross of silver. 
22	19	Therefore this is what the Sovereign LORD says	 ‘Because you have all become dross, I will gather you into Jerusalem. 
22	20	As men gather silver, copper, iron, lead and tin into a furnace to melt it with a fiery blast, so will I gather you in my anger and my wrath and put you inside the city and melt you. 
22	21	I will gather you and I will blow on you with my fiery wrath, and you will be melted inside her. 
22	22	As silver is melted in a furnace, so you will be melted inside her, and you will know that I the LORD have poured out my wrath upon you.’ 
22	23	Again the word of the LORD came to me	 
22	24	Son of man, say to the land, ‘You are a land that has had no rain or showers [Septuagint Hebrew has not been cleansed or rained on] in the day of wrath.’ 
22	25	There is a conspiracy of her princes [Septuagint Hebrew prophets] within her like a roaring lion tearing its prey they devour people, take treasures and precious things and make many widows within her. 
22	26	Her priests do violence to my law and profane my holy things they do not distinguish between the holy and the common they teach that there is no difference between the unclean and the clean and they shut their eyes to the keeping of my Sabbaths, so tha 
22	27	Her officials within her are like wolves tearing their prey they shed blood and kill people to make unjust gain. 
22	28	Her prophets whitewash these deeds for them by false visions and lying divinations. They say, ‘This is what the Sovereign LORD says’	when the LORD has not spoken. 
22	29	The people of the land practise extortion and commit robbery they oppress the poor and needy and ill-treat the alien, denying them justice. 
22	30	I looked for a man among them who would build up the wall and stand before me in the gap on behalf of the land so that I would not have to destroy it, but I found none. 
22	31	So I will pour out my wrath on them and consume them with my fiery anger, bringing down on their own heads all they have done, declares the Sovereign LORD.