6	1	The word of the LORD came to me	 
6	2	Son of man, set your face against the mountains of Israel prophesy against them 
6	3	and say	 ‘O mountains of Israel, hear the word of the Sovereign LORD. This is what the Sovereign LORD says to the mountains and hills, to the ravines and valleys	 I am about to bring a sword against you, and I will destroy your high places. 
6	4	Your altars will be demolished and your incense altars will be smashed and I will slay your people in front of your idols. 
6	5	I will lay the dead bodies of the Israelites in front of their idols, and I will scatter your bones around your altars. 
6	6	Wherever you live, the towns will be laid waste and the high places demolished, so that your altars will be laid waste and devastated, your idols smashed and ruined, your incense altars broken down, and what you have made wiped out. 
6	7	Your people will fall slain among you, and you will know that I am the LORD. 
6	8	‘But I will spare some, for some of you will escape the sword when you are scattered among the lands and nations. 
6	9	Then in the nations where they have been carried captive, those who escape will remember me	how I have been grieved by their adulterous hearts, which have turned away from me, and by their eyes, which have lusted after their idols. They will loathe the 
6	10	And they will know that I am the LORD I did not threaten in vain to bring this calamity on them. 
6	11	‘This is what the Sovereign LORD says	 Strike your hands together and stamp your feet and cry out Alas! because of all the wicked and detestable practices of the house of Israel, for they will fall by the sword, famine and plague. 
6	12	He that is far away will die of the plague, and he that is near will fall by the sword, and he that survives and is spared will die of famine. So will I spend my wrath upon them. 
6	13	And they will know that I am the LORD, when their people lie slain among their idols around their altars, on every high hill and on all the mountaintops, under every spreading tree and every leafy oak	places where they offered fragrant incense to all	
6	14	And I will stretch out my hand against them and make the land a desolate waste from the desert to Diblah	[Most Hebrew manuscripts a few Hebrew manuscripts Riblah] wherever they live. Then they will know that I am the LORD.’