12	1	At that time Michael, the great prince who protects your people, will arise. There will be a time of distress such as has not happened from the beginning of nations until then. But at that time your people	everyone whose name is found written in the bo 
12	2	Multitudes who sleep in the dust of the earth will awake	 some to everlasting life, others to shame and everlasting contempt. 
12	3	Those who are wise [Or who impart wisdom] will shine like the brightness of the heavens, and those who lead many to righteousness, like the stars for ever and ever. 
12	4	But you, Daniel, close up and seal the words of the scroll until the time of the end. Many will go here and there to increase knowledge. 
12	5	Then I, Daniel, looked, and there before me stood two others, one on this bank of the river and one on the opposite bank. 
12	6	One of them said to the man clothed in linen, who was above the waters of the river, How long will it be before these astonishing things are fulfilled? 
12	7	The man clothed in linen, who was above the waters of the river, lifted his right hand and his left hand towards heaven, and I heard him swear by him who lives for ever, saying, It will be for a time, times and half a time. [Or a year, two years and hal 
12	8	I heard, but I did not understand. So I asked, My lord, what will the outcome of all this be? 
12	9	He replied, Go your way, Daniel, because the words are closed up and sealed until the time of the end. 
12	10	Many will be purified, made spotless and refined, but the wicked will continue to be wicked. None of the wicked will understand, but those who are wise will understand. 
12	11	From the time that the daily sacrifice is abolished and the abomination that causes desolation is set up, there will be 1,290 days. 
12	12	Blessed is the one who waits for and reaches the end of the 1,335 days. 
12	13	As for you, go your way till the end. You will rest, and then at the end of the days you will rise to receive your allotted inheritance. 1956 HOSEA