3	8	So I have come down to rescue them from the hand of the Egyptians and to bring them up out of that land into a good and spacious land, a land flowing with milk and honey	the home of the Canaanites, Hittites, Amorites, Perizzites, Hivites and Jebusites. 
3	9	And now the cry of the Israelites has reached me, and I have seen the way the Egyptians are oppressing them. 
3	10	So now, go. I am sending you to Pharaoh to bring my people the Israelites out of Egypt. 
3	11	But Moses said to God, Who am I, that I should go to Pharaoh and bring the Israelites out of Egypt? 
3	12	And God said, I will be with you. And this will be the sign to you that it is I who have sent you	 When you have brought the people out of Egypt, you will worship God on this mountain. 
3	13	Moses said to God, Suppose I go to the Israelites and say to them, ‘The God of your fathers has sent me to you,’ and they ask me, ‘What is his name?’ Then what shall I tell them? 
3	14	God said to Moses, I AM WHO IThis is what you are to say to the Israelites	 ‘I AM has sent me to you.’ 
3	15	God also said to Moses, Say to the Israelites, ‘The LORD, the God of your fathers	the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac and the God of Jacob	has sent me to you.’ This is my name for ever, the name by which I am to be remembered from generation to gene 
3	16	Go, assemble the elders of Israel and say to them, ‘The LORD, the God of your fathers	the God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob	appeared to me and said	 I have watched over you and have seen what has been done to you in Egypt. 
3	17	And I have promised to bring you up out of your misery in Egypt into the land of the Canaanites, Hittites, Amorites, Perizzites, Hivites and Jebusites	a land flowing with milk and honey.’ 
3	18	The elders of Israel will listen to you. Then you and the elders are to go to the king of Egypt and say to him, ‘The LORD, the God of the Hebrews, has met with us. Let us take a three-day journey into the desert to offer sacrifices to the LORD our God. 
3	19	But I know that the king of Egypt will not let you go unless a mighty hand compels him. 
3	20	So I will stretch out my hand and strike the Egyptians with all the wonders that I will perform among them. After that, he will let you go. 
3	21	And I will make the Egyptians favourably disposed towards this people, so that when you leave you will not go emptyhanded. 
3	22	Every woman is to ask her neighbour and any woman living in her house for articles of silver and gold and for clothing, 139 which you will put on your sons and daughters. And so you will plunder the Egyptians.