8	1	This is what the Sovereign LORD showed me	 a basket of ripe fruit. 
8	2	What do you see, Amos? he asked. A basket of ripe fruit, I answered. Then the LORD said to me, The time is ripe for my people Israel I will spare them no longer. 
8	3	In that day, declares the Sovereign LORD, the songs in the temple will turn to wailing. [Or the temple singers will wail] Many, many bodies	flung everywhere! Silence! 
8	4	Hear this, you who trample the needy and do away with the poor of the land, 
8	5	saying, When will the New Moon be over that we may sell grain, and the Sabbath be ended that we may market wheat?	skimping the measure, boosting the price and cheating with dishonest scales, 
8	6	buying the poor with silver and the needy for a pair of sandals, selling even the sweepings with the wheat. 
8	7	The LORD has sworn by the Pride of Jacob	 I will never forget anything they have done. 
8	8	Will not the land tremble for this, and all who live in it mourn? The whole land will rise like the Nile it will be stirred up and then sink like the river of Egypt. 
8	9	In that day, declares the Sovereign LORD, I will make the sun go down at noon and darken the earth in broad daylight. 
8	10	I will turn your religious feasts into mourning and all your singing into weeping. I will make all of you wear sackcloth and shave your heads. I will make that time like mourning for an only son and the end of it like a bitter day. 
8	11	The days are coming, declares the Sovereign LORD, when I will send a famine through the land	not a famine of food or a thirst for water, but a famine of hearing the words of the LORD. 
8	12	Men will stagger from sea to sea and wander from north to east, searching for the word of the LORD, but they will not find it. 
8	13	In that day the lovely young women and strong young men will faint because of thirst. 
8	14	They who swear by the shame [Or by Ashima or by the idol] of Samaria, or say, ‘As surely as your god lives, O Dan’, or, ‘As surely as the god [Or power] of Beersheba lives’	they will fall, never to rise again.