5	1	Marshal your troops, O city of troops, [Or Strengthen your walls, O walled city] for a siege is laid against us. They will strike Israel’s ruler on the cheek with a rod. 
5	2	But you, Bethlehem Ephrathah, though you are small among the clans [Or rulers] of Judah, out of you will come for me one who will be ruler over Israel, whose origins [Hebrew goings out] are from of old, from ancient times. [Or from days of eternity] 
5	3	Therefore Israel will be abandoned until the time when she who is in labour gives birth and the rest of his brothers return to join the Israelites. 
5	4	He will stand and shepherd his flock in the strength of the LORD, in the majesty of the name of the LORD his God. 2011 And they will live securely, for then his greatness will reach to the ends of the earth. 
5	5	And he will be their peace. When the Assyrian invades our land and marches through our fortresses, we will raise against him seven shepherds, even eight leaders of men. 
5	6	They will rule [Or crush] the land of Assyria with the sword, the land of Nimrod with drawn sword. [Or Nimrod in its gates] He will deliver us from the Assyrian when he invades our land and marches into our borders. 
5	7	The remnant of Jacob will be in the midst of many peoples like dew from the LORD, like showers on the grass, which do not wait for man or linger for mankind. 
5	8	The remnant of Jacob will be among the nations, in the midst of many peoples, like a lion among the beasts of the forest, like a young lion among flocks of sheep, which mauls and mangles as it goes, and no-one can rescue. 
5	9	Your hand will be lifted up in triumph over your enemies, and all your foes will be destroyed. 
5	10	In that day, declares the LORD, I will destroy your horses from among you and demolish your chariots. 
5	11	I will destroy the cities of your land and tear down all your strongholds. 
5	12	I will destroy your witchcraft and you will no longer cast spells. 
5	13	I will destroy your carved images and your sacred stones from among you you will no longer bow down to the work of your hands. 
5	14	I will uproot from among you your Asherah poles [That is, symbols of the goddess Asherah] and demolish your cities. 
5	15	I will take vengeance in anger and wrath upon the nations that have not obeyed me.