2	1	I will stand at my watch and station myself on the ramparts I will look to see what he will say to me, and what answer I am to give to this complaint. [Or and what to answer when I am rebuked] 
2	2	Then the LORD replied	 Write down the revelation and make it plain on tablets so that a herald [Or so that whoever reads it] may run with it. 
2	3	For the revelation awaits an appointed time it speaks of the end and will not prove false. Though it linger, wait for it it [Or Though he linger, wait for him he] will certainly come and will not delay. 
2	4	See, he is puffed up his desires are not upright	but the righteous will live by his faith	[Or faithfulness] 
2	5	indeed, wine betrays him he is arrogant and never at rest. Because he is as greedy as the grave [Hebrew Sheol] and like death is never satisfied, he gathers to himself all the nations and takes captive all the peoples. 
2	6	Will not all of them taunt him with ridicule and scorn, saying, ‘Woe to him who piles up stolen goods and makes himself wealthy by extortion! How long must this go on?’ 
2	7	Will not your debtors [Or creditors] suddenly arise? Will they not wake up and make you tremble? Then you will become their victim. 
2	8	Because you have plundered many nations, the peoples who are left will plunder you. For you have shed man’s blood you have destroyed lands and cities and everyone in them. 
2	9	Woe to him who builds his realm by unjust gain to set his nest on high, to escape the clutches of ruin! 
2	10	You have plotted the ruin of many peoples, shaming your own house and forfeiting your life. 
2	11	The stones of the wall will cry out, and the beams of the woodwork will echo it. 
2	12	Woe to him who builds a city with bloodshed and establishes a town by crime! 
2	13	Has not the LORD Almighty determined that the people’s labour is only fuel for the fire, that the nations exhaust themselves for nothing? 
2	14	For the earth will be filled with the knowledge of the glory of the LORD, as the waters cover the sea. 
2	15	Woe to him who gives drink to his neighbours, pouring it from the wineskin till they are drunk, so that he can gaze on their naked bodies. 
2	16	You will be filled with shame instead of glory. Now it is your turn! Drink and be exposed! [Masoretic Text Dead Sea Scrolls, Aquila, Vulgate and Syriac (see also Septuagint) and stagger] The cup from the LORD’s right hand is coming round to you, and di 
2	17	The violence you have done to Lebanon will overwhelm you, and your destruction of animals will terrify you. For you have shed man’s blood you have destroyed lands and cities and everyone in them. 
2	18	Of what value is an idol, since a man has carved it? Or an image that teaches lies? For he who makes it trusts in his own creation he makes idols that cannot speak. 
2	19	Woe to him who says to wood, ‘Come to life!’ Or to lifeless stone, ‘Wake up!’ Can it give guidance? It is covered with gold and silver there is no breath in it. 
2	20	But the LORD is in his holy temple let all the earth be silent before him.