1	1	In the second year of King Darius, on the first day of the sixth month, the word of the LORD came through the prophet Haggai to Zerubbabel son of Shealtiel, governor of Judah, and to Joshua [A variant of Jeshua here and elsewhere in Haggai] son of Jehoz 
1	2	This is what the LORD Almighty says	 These people say, ‘The time has not yet come for the LORD’s house to be built.’ 
1	3	Then the word of the LORD came through the prophet Haggai	 
1	4	Is it a time for you yourselves to be living in your panelled houses, while this house remains a ruin? 
1	5	Now this is what the LORD Almighty says	 Give careful thought to your ways. 
1	6	You have planted much, but have harvested little. You eat, but never have enough. You drink, but never have your fill. You put on clothes, but are not warm. You earn wages, only to put them in a purse with holes in it. 
1	7	This is what the LORD Almighty says	 Give careful thought to your ways. 
1	8	Go up into the mountains and bring down timber and build the house, so that I may take pleasure in it and be honoured, says the LORD. 
1	9	You expected much, but see, it turned out to be little. What you brought home, I blew away. Why? declares the LORD Almighty. Because of my house, which remains a ruin, while each of you is busy with his own house. 
1	10	Therefore, because of you the heavens have withheld their dew and the earth its crops. 
1	11	I called for a drought on the fields and the mountains, on the grain, the new wine, the oil and whatever the ground produces, on men and cattle, and on the labour of your hands. 
1	12	Then Zerubbabel son of Shealtiel, Joshua son of Jehozadak, the high priest, and the whole remnant of the people obeyed the voice of the LORD their God and the message of the prophet Haggai, because the LORD their God had sent him. And the people feared 
1	13	Then Haggai, the LORD’s messenger, gave this message of the LORD to the people	 I am with you, declares the LORD. 
1	14	So the LORD stirred up the spirit of Zerubbabel son of Shealtiel, governor of Judah, and the spirit of Joshua son of Jehozadak, the high priest, and the spirit of the whole remnant of the people. They came and began work on the house of the LORD Almigh 
1	15	on the twenty-fourth day of the sixth month in the second year of King Darius.