12	1	This is the word of the LORD concerning Israel. The LORD, who stretches out the heavens, who lays the foundation of the earth, and who forms the spirit of man within him, declares	 
12	2	I am going to make Jerusalem a cup that sends all the surrounding peoples reeling. Judah will be besieged as well as Jerusalem. 
12	3	On that day, when all the nations of the earth are gathered against her, I will make Jerusalem an immovable rock for all the nations. All who try to move it will injure themselves. 
12	4	On that day I will strike every horse with panic and its rider with madness, declares the LORD. I will keep a watchful eye over the house of Judah, but I will blind all the horses of the nations. 
12	5	Then the leaders of Judah will say in their hearts, ‘The people of Jerusalem are strong, because the LORD Almighty is their God.’ 
12	6	On that day I will make the leaders of Judah like a brazier in a woodpile, like a flaming torch among sheaves. They will 2053 consume right and left all the surrounding peoples, but Jerusalem will remain intact in her place. 
12	7	The LORD will save the dwellings of Judah first, so that the honour of the house of David and of Jerusalem’s inhabitants may not be greater than that of Judah. 
12	8	On that day the LORD will shield those who live in Jerusalem, so that the feeblest among them will be like David, and the house of David will be like God, like the Angel of the LORD going before them. 
12	9	On that day I will set out to destroy all the nations that attack Jerusalem. 
12	10	And I will pour out on the house of David and the inhabitants of Jerusalem a spirit [Or the Spirit] of grace and supplication. They will look on [Or to] me, the one they have pierced, and they will mourn for him as one mourns for an only child, and gri 
12	11	On that day the weeping in Jerusalem will be great, like the weeping of Hadad Rimmon in the plain of Megiddo. 
12	12	The land will mourn, each clan by itself, with their wives by themselves	 the clan of the house of David and their wives, the clan of the house of Nathan and their wives, 
12	13	the clan of the house of Levi and their wives, the clan of Shimei and their wives, 
12	14	and all the rest of the clans and their wives.