1	1	An oracle	 The word of the LORD to Israel through Malachi. [Malachi means my messenger.] 
1	2	I have loved you, says the LORD. But you ask, ‘How have you loved us?’ Was not Esau Jacob’s brother? the LORD says. Yet I have loved Jacob, 
1	3	but Esau I have hated, and I have turned his mountains into a wasteland and left his inheritance to the desert jackals. 
1	4	Edom may say, Though we have been crushed, we will rebuild the ruins. But this is what the LORD Almighty says	 They may build, but I will demolish. They will be called the Wicked Land, a people always under the wrath of the LORD. 
1	5	You will see it with your own eyes and say, ‘Great is the LORD	even beyond the borders of Israel!’ 
1	6	A son honours his father, and a servant his master. If I am a father, where is the honour due to me? If I am a master, where is the respect due to me? says the LORD Almighty. It is you, O priests, who show contempt for my name. But you ask, ‘How have we 
1	7	You place defiled food on my altar. But you ask, ‘How have we defiled you?’ By saying that the LORD’s table is contemptible. 
1	8	When you bring blind animals for sacrifice, is that not wrong? When you sacrifice crippled or diseased animals, is that not wrong? Try offering them to your governor! Would he be pleased with you? Would he accept you? says the LORD Almighty. 
1	9	Now implore God to be gracious to us. With such offerings from your hands, will he accept you?	says the LORD Almighty. 
1	10	Oh, that one of you would shut the temple doors, so that you would not light useless fires on my altar! I am not pleased with you, says the LORD Almighty, and I will accept no offering from your hands. 
1	11	My name will be great among the nations, from the rising to the setting of the sun. In every place incense and pure offerings will be brought to my name, because my name will be great among the nations, says the LORD Almighty. 
1	12	But you profane it by saying of the Lord’s table, ‘It is defiled’, and of its food, ‘It is contemptible.’ 
1	13	And you say, ‘What a burden!’ and you sniff at it contemptuously, says the LORD Almighty. When you bring injured, crippled or diseased animals and offer them as sacrifices, should I accept them from your hands? says the LORD. 
1	14	Cursed is the cheat who has an acceptable male in his flock and vows to give it, but then sacrifices a blemished animal to the Lord. For I am a great king, says the LORD Almighty, and my name is to be feared among the nations.