6	1	The LORD said to Moses	 
6	2	If anyone sins and is unfaithful to the LORD by deceiving his neighbour about something entrusted to him or left in his care or stolen, or if he cheats him, 
6	3	or if he finds lost property and lies about it, or if he swears falsely, or if he commits any such sin that people may do 
6	4	when he thus sins and becomes guilty, he must return what he has stolen or taken by extortion, or what was entrusted to him, or the lost property he found, 
6	5	or whatever it was he swore falsely about. He must make restitution in full, add a fifth of the value to it and give it all to the owner on the day he presents his guilt offering. 
6	6	And as a penalty he must bring to the priest, that is, to the LORD, his guilt offering, a ram from the flock, one without defect and of the proper value. 
6	7	In this way the priest will make atonement for him before the LORD, and he will be forgiven for any of these things he did that made him guilty. 
6	8	The LORD said to Moses	 
6	9	Give Aaron and his sons this command	 ‘These are the regulations for the burnt offering	 The burnt offering is to remain on the altar hearth throughout the night, till morning, and the fire must be kept burning on the altar. 
6	10	The priest shall then put on his linen clothes, with linen undergarments next to his body, and shall remove the ashes of the burnt offering that the fire has consumed on the altar and place them beside the altar. 
6	11	Then he is to take off these clothes and put on others, and carry the ashes outside the camp to a place that is ceremonially clean. 
6	12	The fire on the altar must be kept burning it must not go out. Every morning the priest is to add firewood and arrange the burnt offering on the fire and burn the fat of the fellowship offerings [Traditionally peace offerings] on it. 
6	13	The fire must be kept burning on the altar continuously it must not go out. 
6	14	‘These are the regulations for the grain offering	 Aaron’s sons are to bring it before the LORD, in front of the altar. 
6	15	The priest is to take a handful of fine flour and oil, together with all the incense on the grain offering, and burn the memorial portion on the altar as an aroma pleasing to the LORD. 
6	16	Aaron and his sons shall eat the rest of it, but it is to be eaten without yeast in a holy place they are to eat it in the courtyard of the Tent of Meeting. 
6	17	It must not be baked with yeast I have given it as their share of the offerings made to me by fire. Like the sin offering and the guilt offering, it is most holy. 
6	18	Any male descendant of Aaron may eat it. It is his regular share of the offerings made to the LORD by fire for the generations to come. Whatever touches it will become holy.’ [Or Whoever touches them must be holy similarly in verse 27] 
6	19	The LORD also said to Moses, 
6	20	This is the offering Aaron and his sons are to bring to the LORD on the day he [Or each] is anointed	 a tenth of an ephah [That is, probably about 4 pints (about 2 litres)] of fine flour as a regular grain offering, half of it in the morning and half i 
6	21	Prepare it with oil on a griddle bring it well-mixed and present the grain offering broken [The meaning of the Hebrew for this word is uncertain.] in pieces as an aroma pleasing to the LORD. 
6	22	The son who is to succeed him as anointed priest shall prepare it. It is the LORD’s regular share and is to be burned completely. 
6	23	Every grain offering of a priest shall be burned completely it must not be eaten. 
6	24	The LORD said to Moses, 
6	25	Say to Aaron and his sons	 ‘These are the regulations for the sin offering	 The sin offering is to be slaughtered before the LORD in the place where the burnt offering is slaughtered it is most holy. 
6	26	The priest who offers it shall eat it it is to be eaten in a holy place, in the courtyard of the Tent of Meeting. 
6	27	Whatever touches any of the flesh will become holy, and if any of the blood is spattered on a garment, you must wash it in a holy place. 
6	28	The clay pot that the meat is cooked in must be broken but if it is cooked in a bronze pot, the pot is to be scoured and rinsed with water. 
6	29	Any male in a priest’s family may eat it it is most holy. 
6	30	But any sin offering whose blood is brought into the Tent of Meeting to make atonement in the Holy Place must not be eaten it must be burned.