25	1	The LORD said to Moses on Mount Sinai, 
25	2	Speak to the Israelites and say to them	 ‘When you enter the land I am going to give you, the land itself must observe a sabbath to the LORD. 
25	3	For six years sow your fields, and for six years prune your vineyards and gather their crops. 
25	4	But in the seventh year the land is to have a sabbath of rest, a sabbath to the LORD. Do not sow your fields or prune your vineyards. 
25	5	Do not reap what grows of itself or harvest the grapes of your untended vines. The land is to have a year of rest. 
25	6	Whatever the land yields during the sabbath year will be food for you	for yourself, your manservant and maidservant, and the hired worker and temporary resident who live among you, 
25	7	as well as for your livestock and the wild animals in your land. Whatever the land produces may be eaten. 
25	8	‘Count off seven sabbaths of years	seven times seven years	so that the seven sabbaths of years amount to a period of forty-nine years. 
25	9	Then have the trumpet sounded everywhere on the tenth day of the seventh month on the Day of Atonement sound the trumpet throughout your land. 
25	10	Consecrate the fiftieth year and proclaim liberty throughout the land to all its inhabitants. It shall be a jubilee for you each one of you is to return to his family property and each to his own clan. 
25	11	The fiftieth year shall be a jubilee for you do not sow and do not reap what grows of itself or harvest the untended vines. 
25	12	For it is a jubilee and is to be holy for you eat only what is taken directly from the fields. 
25	13	‘In this Year of Jubilee everyone is to return to his own property. 
25	14	‘If you sell land to one of your countrymen or buy any from him, do not take advantage of each other. 
25	15	You are to buy from your countryman on the basis of the number of years since the Jubilee. And he is to sell to you on the basis of the number of years left for harvesting crops. 
25	16	When the years are many, you are to increase the price, and when the years are few, you are to decrease the price, because what he is really selling you is the number of crops. 
25	17	Do not take advantage of each other, but fear your God. I am the LORD your God. 
25	18	‘Follow my decrees and be careful to obey my laws, and you will live safely in the land. 
25	19	Then the land will yield its fruit, and you will eat your fill and live there in safety. 
25	20	You may ask, What will we eat in the seventh year if we do not plant or harvest our crops? 
25	21	I will send you such a blessing in the sixth year that the land will yield enough for three years. 
25	22	While you plant during the eighth year, you will eat from the old crop and will continue to eat from it until the harvest of the ninth year comes in. 
25	23	‘The land must not be sold permanently, because the land is mine and you are but aliens and my tenants. 
25	24	Throughout the country that you hold as a possession, you must provide for the redemption of the land. 
25	25	‘If one of your countrymen becomes poor and sells some of his property, his nearest relative is to come and redeem what his countryman has sold. 
25	26	If, however, a man has no-one to redeem it for him but he himself prospers and acquires sufficient means to redeem it, 
25	27	he is to determine the value for the years since he sold it and refund the balance to the man to whom he sold it he can then go back to his own property. 
25	28	But if he does not acquire the means to repay him, what he sold will remain in the possession of the buyer until the Year of Jubilee. It will be returned in the Jubilee, and he can then go back to his property. 
25	29	‘If a man sells a house in a walled city, he retains the right of redemption a full year after its sale. During that time he may redeem it. 
25	30	If it is not redeemed before a full year has passed, the house in the walled city shall belong permanently to the buyer and his descendants. It is not to be returned in the Jubilee. 
25	31	But houses in villages without walls round them are to be considered as open country. They can be redeemed, and they are to be returned in the Jubilee. 
25	32	‘The Levites always have the right to redeem their houses in the Levitical towns, which they possess. 
25	33	So the property of the Levites is redeemable	that is, a house sold in any town they hold	and is to be returned in the Jubilee, because the houses in the towns of the Levites are their property among the Israelites. 
25	34	But the pasture-land belonging to their towns must not be sold it is their permanent possession. 
25	35	‘If one of your countrymen becomes poor and is unable to support himself among you, help him as you would an alien or a temporary resident, so that he can continue to live among you. 
25	36	Do not take interest of any kind [Or take excessive interest similarly in verse 37] from him, but fear your God, so that your countryman may continue to live among you. 
25	37	You must not lend him money at interest or sell him food at a profit. 
25	38	I am the LORD your God, who brought you out of Egypt to give you the land of Canaan and to be your God. 
25	39	‘If one of your countrymen becomes poor among you and sells himself to you, do not make him work as a slave. 
25	40	He is to be treated as a hired worker or a temporary resident among you he is to work for you until the Year of Jubilee. 
25	41	Then he and his children are to be released, and he will go back to his own clan and to the property of his forefathers. 
25	42	Because the Israelites are my servants, whom I brought out of Egypt, they must not be sold as slaves. 
25	43	Do not rule over them ruthlessly, but fear your God. 
25	44	‘Your male and female slaves are to come from the nations around you from them you may buy slaves. 
25	45	You may also buy some of the temporary residents living among you and members of their clans born in your country, and they will become your property. 
25	46	You can will them to your children as inherited property and can make them slaves for life, but you must not rule over your fellow Israelites ruthlessly. 
25	47	‘If an alien or a temporary resident among you becomes rich and one of your countrymen becomes poor and sells himself to the alien living among you or to a member of the alien’s clan, 
25	48	he retains the right of redemption after he has sold himself. One of his relatives may redeem him	 
25	49	An uncle or a cousin or any blood-relative in his clan may redeem him. Or if he prospers, he may redeem himself. 
25	50	He and his buyer are to count the time from the year he sold himself up to the Year of Jubilee. The price for his release is to be based on the rate paid to a hired man for that number of years. 
25	51	If many years remain, he must pay for his redemption a larger share of the price paid for him. 
25	52	If only a few years remain until the Year of Jubilee, he is to compute that and pay for his redemption accordingly. 
25	53	He is to be treated as a man hired from year to year you must see to it that his owner does not rule over him ruthlessly. 
25	54	‘Even if he is not redeemed in any of these ways, he and his children are to be released in the Year of Jubilee, 
25	55	for the Israelites belong to me as servants. They are my servants, whom I brought out of Egypt. I am the LORD your God.