17	1	The LORD said to Moses, 
17	2	Speak to Aaron and his sons and to all the Israelites and say to them	 ‘This is what the LORD has commanded	 
17	3	Any Israelite who sacrifices an ox, [The Hebrew word can include both male and female.] a lamb or a goat in the camp or outside of it 
17	4	instead of bringing it to the entrance to the Tent of Meeting to present it as an offering to the LORD in front of the tabernacle of the LORD	that man shall be considered guilty of bloodshed he has shed blood and must be cut off from his people. 
17	5	This is so that the Israelites will bring to the LORD the sacrifices they are now making in the open fields. They must bring them to the priest, that is, to the LORD, at the entrance to the Tent of Meeting and sacrifice them as fellowship offerings. [Tr 
17	6	The priest is to sprinkle the blood against the altar of the LORD at the entrance to the Tent of Meeting and burn the fat as an aroma pleasing to the LORD. 
17	7	They must no longer offer any of their sacrifices to the goat idols [Or demons] to whom they prostitute themselves. This is to be a lasting ordinance for them and for the generations to come.’ 
17	8	Say to them	 ‘Any Israelite or any alien living among them who offers a burnt offering or sacrifice 
17	9	and does not bring it to the entrance to the Tent of Meeting to sacrifice it to the LORD	that man must be cut off from his people. 
17	10	‘Any Israelite or any alien living among them who eats any blood	I will set my face against that person who eats blood and will cut him off from his people. 
17	11	For the life of a creature is in the blood, and I have given it to you to make atonement for yourselves on the altar it is the blood that makes atonement for one’s life. 
17	12	Therefore I say to the Israelites, None of you may eat blood, nor may an alien living among you eat blood. 
17	13	‘Any Israelite or any alien living among you who hunts any animal or bird that may be eaten must drain out the blood and cover it with earth, 
17	14	because the life of every creature is its blood. That is why I have said to the Israelites, You must not eat the blood of any creature, because the life of every creature is its blood anyone who eats it must be cut off. 
17	15	‘Anyone, whether native-born or alien, who eats anything found dead or torn by wild animals must wash his clothes and bathe with water, and he will be ceremonially unclean till evening then he will be clean. 
17	16	But if he does not wash his clothes and bathe himself, he will be held responsible.’