22	1	The LORD said to Moses, 
22	2	Tell Aaron and his sons to treat with respect the sacred offerings the Israelites consecrate to me, so that they will not profane my holy name. I am the LORD. 
22	3	Say to them	 ‘For the generations to come, if any of your descendants is ceremonially unclean and yet comes near the sacred offerings that the Israelites consecrate to the LORD, that person must be cut off from my presence. I am the LORD. 
22	4	‘If a descendant of Aaron has an infectious skin disease [Traditionally leprosy the Hebrew word was used for various diseases affecting the skin	not necessarily leprosy.] or a bodily discharge, he may not eat the sacred offerings until he is cleansed.	
22	5	or if he touches any crawling thing that makes him unclean, or any person who makes him unclean, whatever the uncleanness may be. 
22	6	The one who touches any such thing will be unclean till evening. He must not eat any of the sacred offerings unless he has bathed himself with water. 
22	7	When the sun goes down, he will be clean, and after that he may eat the sacred offerings, for they are his food. 
22	8	He must not eat anything found dead or torn by wild animals, and so become unclean through it. I am the LORD. 
22	9	‘The priests are to keep my requirements so that they do not become guilty and die for treating them with contempt. I am the LORD, who makes them holy. [Or who sanctifies them or who sets them apart as holy also in verse 16] 
22	10	‘No-one outside a priest’s family may eat the sacred offering, nor may the guest of a priest or his hired worker eat it. 
22	11	But if a priest buys a slave with money, or if a slave is born in his household, that slave may eat his food. 
22	12	If a priest’s daughter marries anyone other than a priest, she may not eat any of the sacred contributions. 
22	13	But if a priest’s daughter becomes a widow or is divorced, yet has no children, and she returns to live in her father’s house as in her youth, she may eat of her father’s food. No unauthorised person, however, may eat any of it. 
22	14	‘If anyone eats a sacred offering by mistake, he must make restitution to the priest for the offering and add a fifth of the value to it. 
22	15	The priests must not desecrate the sacred offerings the Israelites present to the LORD 
22	16	by allowing them to eat the sacred offerings and so bring upon them guilt requiring payment. I am the LORD, who makes them holy.’ 
22	17	The LORD said to Moses, 
22	18	Speak to Aaron and his sons and to all the Israelites and say to them	 ‘If any of you	either an Israelite or an alien living in Israel	presents a gift for a burnt offering to the LORD, either to fulfil a vow or as a freewill offering, 
22	19	you must present a male without defect from the cattle, sheep or goats in order that it may be accepted on your behalf. 
22	20	Do not bring anything with a defect, because it will not be accepted on your behalf. 
22	21	When anyone brings from the herd or flock a fellowship offering [Traditionally peace offering] to the LORD to fulfil a special vow or as a freewill offering, it must be without defect or blemish to be acceptable. 
22	22	Do not offer to the LORD the blind, the injured or the maimed, or anything with warts or festering or running sores. Do not place any of these on the altar as an offering made to the LORD by fire. 
22	23	You may, however, present as a freewill offering an ox [The Hebrew word can include both male and female.] or a sheep that is deformed or stunted, but it will not be accepted in fulfilment of a vow. 
22	24	You must not offer to the LORD an animal whose testicles are bruised, crushed, torn or cut. You must not do this in your own land, 
22	25	and you must not accept such animals from the hand of a foreigner and offer them as the food of your God. They will not be accepted on your behalf, because they are deformed and have defects.’ 
22	26	The LORD said to Moses, 
22	27	When a calf, a lamb or a goat is born, it is to remain with its mother for seven days. From the eighth day on, it will be acceptable as an offering made to the LORD by fire. 
22	28	Do not slaughter a cow or a sheep and its young on the same day. 
22	29	When you sacrifice a thank-offering to the LORD, sacrifice it in such a way that it will be accepted on your behalf. 
22	30	It must be eaten that same day leave none of it till morning. I am the LORD. 
22	31	Keep my commands and follow them. I am the LORD. 
22	32	Do not profane my holy name. I must be acknowledged as holy by the Israelites. I am the LORD, who makes [Or made] you holy [Or who sanctifies you or who sets you apart as holy] 
22	33	and who brought you out of Egypt to be your God. I am the LORD.