4	1	Then Jesus was led by the Spirit into the desert to be tempted by the devil. 
4	2	After fasting for forty days and forty nights, he was hungry. 
4	3	The tempter came to him and said, If you are the Son of God, tell these stones to become bread. 
4	4	Jesus answered, It is written	 `Man does not live on bread alone, but on every word that comes from the mouth of God.’ [Deut. 8	3] 
4	5	Then the devil took him to the holy city and had him stand on the highest point of the temple. 
4	6	If you are the Son of God, he said, throw yourself down. For it is written	 `He will command his angels concerning you, and they will lift you up in their hands, so that you will not strike your foot against a stone.’ [Psalm 91	11,12] 
4	7	Jesus answered him, It is also written	 `Do not put the Lord your God to the test.’ [Deut. 6	16] 
4	8	Again, the devil took him to a very high mountain and showed him all the kingdoms of the world and their splendour. 
4	9	All this I will give you, he said, if you will bow down and worship me. 
4	10	Jesus said to him, Away from me, Satan! For it is written	 `Worship the Lord your God, and serve him only.’ [Deut. 6	13] 
4	11	Then the devil left him, and angels came and attended him. 
4	12	When Jesus heard that John had been put in prison, he returned to Galilee. 
4	13	Leaving Nazareth, he went and lived in Capernaum, which was by the lake in the area of Zebulun and Naphtali 
4	14	to fulfil what was said through the prophet Isaiah	 
4	15	Land of Zebulun and land of Naphtali, the way to the sea, along the Jordan, Galilee of the Gentiles	
4	16	the people living in darkness have seen a great light on those living in the land of the shadow of death a light has dawned. [Isaiah 9	1,2] 
4	17	From that time on Jesus began to preach, Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is near. 
4	18	As Jesus was walking beside the Sea of Galilee, he saw two brothers, Simon called Peter and his brother Andrew. They were casting a net into the lake, for they were fishermen. 
4	19	Come, follow me, Jesus said, and I will make you fishers of men. 
4	20	At once they left their nets and followed him. 
4	21	Going on from there, he saw two other brothers, James son of Zebedee and his brother John. They were in a boat with their father Zebedee, preparing their nets. Jesus called them, 
4	22	and immediately they left the boat and their father and followed him. 
4	23	Jesus went throughout Galilee, teaching in their synagogues, preaching the good news of the kingdom, and healing every disease and sickness among the people. 
4	24	News about him spread all over Syria, and people brought to him all who were ill with various diseases, those suffering severe pain, the demon-possessed, those having seizures, and the paralysed, and he healed them. 
4	25	Large crowds from Galilee, the Decapolis, [That is, the Ten Cities] Jerusalem, Judea and the region across the Jordan followed him.