1	1	The beginning of the gospel about Jesus Christ, the Son of God. [Some manuscripts	 do not have the Son of God.] 
1	2	It is written in Isaiah the prophet	 I will send my messenger ahead of you, who will prepare your way	[Mal. 3	1] 
1	3	a voice of one calling in the desert, `Prepare the way for the Lord, make straight paths for him.’ [Isaiah 40	3] 
1	4	And so John came, baptising in the desert region and preaching a baptism of repentance for the forgiveness of sins. 
1	5	The whole Judean countryside and all the people of Jerusalem went out to him. Confessing their sins, they were baptised by him in the Jordan River. 
1	6	John wore clothing made of camel’s hair, with a leather belt round his waist, and he ate locusts and wild honey. 
1	7	And this was his message	 After me will come one more powerful than I, the thongs of whose sandals I am not worthy to stoop down and untie. 
1	8	I baptise you with [Or in] water, but he will baptise you with the Holy Spirit. 
1	9	At that time Jesus came from Nazareth in Galilee and was baptised by John in the Jordan. 
1	10	As Jesus was coming up out of the water, he saw heaven being torn open and the Spirit descending on him like a dove. 
1	11	And a voice came from heaven	 You are my Son, whom I love with you I am well pleased. 
1	12	At once the Spirit sent him out into the desert, 
1	13	and he was in the desert for forty days, being tempted by Satan. He was with the wild animals, and angels attended him. 
1	14	After John was put in prison, Jesus went into Galilee, proclaiming the good news of God. 
1	15	The time has come, he said. The kingdom of God is near. Repent and believe the good news! 
1	16	As Jesus walked beside the Sea of Galilee, he saw Simon and his brother Andrew casting a net into the lake, for they were fishermen. 
1	17	Come, follow me, Jesus said, and I will make you fishers of men. 
1	18	At once they left their nets and followed him. 
1	19	When he had gone a little farther, he saw James son of Zebedee and his brother John in a boat, preparing their nets. 
1	20	Without delay he called them, and they left their father Zebedee in the boat with the hired men and followed him. 
1	21	They went to Capernaum, and when the Sabbath came, Jesus went into the synagogue and began to teach. 
1	22	The people were amazed at his teaching, because he taught them as one who had authority, not as the teachers of the law. 
1	23	Just then a man in their synagogue who was possessed by an evil [Greek	 unclean also in verses 26 and 27] spirit cried out, 
1	24	What do you want with us, Jesus of Nazareth? Have you come to destroy us? I know who you are	the Holy One of God! 
1	25	Be quiet! said Jesus sternly. Come out of him! 
1	26	The evil spirit shook the man violently and came out of him with a shriek. 
1	27	The people were all so amazed that they asked each other, What is this? A new teaching	and with authority! He even gives orders to evil spirits and they obey him. 
1	28	News about him spread quickly over the whole region of Galilee. 
1	29	As soon as they left the synagogue, they went with James and John to the home of Simon and Andrew. 
1	30	Simon’s mother-in-law was in bed with a fever, and they told Jesus about her. 
1	31	So he went to her, took her hand and helped her up. The fever left her and she began to wait on them. 
1	32	That evening after sunset the people brought to Jesus all the sick and demon-possessed. 
1	33	The whole town gathered at the door, 
1	34	and Jesus healed many who had various diseases. He also drove out many demons, but he would not let the demons speak because they knew who he was. 
1	35	Very early in the morning, while it was still dark, Jesus got up, left the house and went off to a solitary place, where he prayed. 
1	36	Simon and his companions went to look for him, 
1	37	and when they found him, they exclaimed	 Everyone is looking for you! 
1	38	Jesus replied, Let us go somewhere else	to the nearby villages	so that I can preach there also. That is why I have come. 
1	39	So he travelled throughout Galilee, preaching in their synagogues and driving out demons. 
1	40	A man with leprosy [The Greek word was used for various diseases affecting the skin	not necessarily leprosy.] came to him and begged him on his knees, If you are willing, you can make me clean. 
1	41	Filled with compassion, Jesus reached out his hand and touched the man. I am willing, he said. Be clean! 
1	42	Immediately the leprosy left him and he was cured. 
1	43	Jesus sent him away at once with a strong warning	 
1	44	See that you don’t tell this to anyone. But go, show yourself to the priest and offer the sacrifices that Moses commanded for your cleansing, as a testimony to them. 
1	45	Instead he went out and began to talk freely, spreading the news. As a result, Jesus could no longer enter a town openly but stayed outside in lonely places. Yet the people still came to him from everywhere.