9	1	As he went along, he saw a man blind from birth. 
9	2	His disciples asked him, Rabbi, who sinned, this man or his parents, that he was born blind? 
9	3	Neither this man nor his parents sinned, said Jesus, but this happened so that the work of God might be displayed in his life. 
9	4	As long as it is day, we must do the work of him who sent me. Night is coming, when no-one can work. 
9	5	While I am in the world, I am the light of the world. 
9	6	Having said this, he spat on the ground, made some mud with the saliva, and put it on the man’s eyes. 
9	7	Go, he told him, wash in the Pool of Siloam (this word means Sent). So the man went and washed, and came home seeing. 
9	8	His neighbours and those who had formerly seen him begging asked, Isn’t this the same man who used to sit and beg? 
9	9	Some claimed that he was. Others said, No, he only looks like him. But he himself insisted, I am the man. 
9	10	How then were your eyes opened? they demanded. 
9	11	He replied, The man they call Jesus made some mud and put it on my eyes. He told me to go to Siloam and wash. So I went and washed, and then I could see. 
9	12	Where is this man? they asked him. I don’t know, he said. 
9	13	They brought to the Pharisees the man who had been blind. 
9	14	Now the day on which Jesus had made the mud and opened the man’s eyes was a Sabbath. 
9	15	Therefore the Pharisees also asked him how he had received his sight. He put mud on my eyes, the man replied, and I washed, and now I see. 
9	16	Some of the Pharisees said, This man is not from God, for he does not keep the Sabbath. But others asked, How can a sinner do such miraculous signs? So they were divided. 
9	17	Finally they turned again to the blind man, What have you to say about him? It was your eyes he opened. The man replied, He is a prophet. 
9	18	The Jews still did not believe that he had been blind and had received his sight until they sent for the man’s parents. 
9	19	Is this your son? they asked. Is this the one you say was born blind? How is it that now he can see? 
9	20	We know he is our son, the parents answered, and we know he was born blind. 
9	21	But how he can see now, or who opened his eyes, we don’t know. Ask him. He is of age he will speak for himself. 
9	22	His parents said this because they were afraid of the Jews, for already the Jews had decided that anyone who acknowledged that Jesus was the Christ [Or Messiah] would be put out of the synagogue. 
9	23	That was why his parents said, He is of age ask him. 
9	24	A second time they summoned the man who had been blind. Give glory to God, [A solemn charge to tell the truth (see Joshua 7	19)] they said. We know this man is a sinner. 
9	25	He replied, Whether he is a sinner or not, I don’t know. One thing I do know. I was blind but now I see! 
9	26	Then they asked him, What did he do to you? How did he open your eyes? 
9	27	He answered, I have told you already and you did not listen. Why do you want to hear it again? Do you want to become his disciples, too? 
9	28	Then they hurled insults at him and said, You are this fellow’s disciple! We are disciples of Moses! 
9	29	We know that God spoke to Moses, but as for this fellow, we don’t even know where he comes from. 
9	30	The man answered, Now that is remarkable! You don’t know where he comes from, yet he opened my eyes. 
9	31	We know that God does not listen to sinners. He listens to the godly man who does his will. 
9	32	Nobody has ever heard of opening the eyes of a man born blind. 
9	33	If this man were not from God, he could do nothing. 
9	34	To this they replied, You were steeped in sin at birth how dare you lecture us! And they threw him out. 
9	35	Jesus heard that they had thrown him out, and when he found him, he said, Do you believe in the Son of Man? 
9	36	Who is he, sir? the man asked. Tell me so that I may believe in him. 
9	37	Jesus said, You have now seen him in fact, he is the one speaking with you. 
9	38	Then the man said, Lord, I believe, and he worshipped him. 
9	39	Jesus said, For judgment I have come into this world, so that the blind will see and those who see will become blind. 
9	40	Some Pharisees who were with him heard him say this and asked, What? Are we blind too? 
9	41	Jesus said, If you were blind, you would not be guilty of sin but now that you claim you can see, your guilt remains.