5	1	Some time later, Jesus went up to Jerusalem for a feast of the Jews. 
5	2	Now there is in Jerusalem near the Sheep Gate a pool, which in Aramaic is called Bethesda [Some manuscripts	 Bethzatha other manuscripts Bethsaida] and which is surrounded by five covered colonnades. 
5	3	Here a great number of disabled people used to lie	the blind, the lame, the paralysed. 
5	4	[Some less important manuscripts	 paralysed	and they waited for the moving of the waters. 4 From time to time an angel of the Lord would come down and stir up the waters. The first one into the pool after each such disturbance would be cured of whateve 
5	5	One who was there had been an invalid for thirty-eight years. 
5	6	When Jesus saw him lying there and learned that he had been in this condition for a long time, he asked him, Do you want to get well? 
5	7	Sir, the invalid replied, I have no-one to help me into the pool when the water is stirred. While I am trying to get in, someone else goes down ahead of me. 
5	8	Then Jesus said to him, Get up! Pick up your mat and walk. 
5	9	At once the man was cured he picked up his mat and walked. The day on which this took place was a Sabbath, 
5	10	and so the Jews said to the man who had been healed, It is the Sabbath the law forbids you to carry your mat. 
5	11	But he replied, The man who made me well said to me, `Pick up your mat and walk.’ 
5	12	So they asked him, Who is this fellow who told you to pick it up and walk? 
5	13	The man who was healed had no idea who it was, for Jesus had slipped away into the crowd that was there. 
5	14	Later Jesus found him at the temple and said to him, See, you are well again. Stop sinning or something worse may happen to you. 
5	15	The man went away and told the Jews that it was Jesus who had made him well. 
5	16	So, because Jesus was doing these things on the Sabbath, the Jews persecuted him. 
5	17	Jesus said to them, My Father is always at his work to this very day, and I, too, am working. 
5	18	For this reason the Jews tried all the harder to kill him not only was he breaking the Sabbath, but he was even calling God his own Father, making himself equal with God. 
5	19	Jesus gave them this answer	 I tell you the truth, the Son can do nothing by himself he can do only what he sees his Father doing, because whatever the Father does the Son also does. 
5	20	For the Father loves the Son and shows him all he does. Yes, to your amazement he will show him even greater things than these. 
5	21	For just as the Father raises the dead and gives them life, even so the Son gives life to whom he is pleased to give it. 
5	22	Moreover, the Father judges no-one, but has entrusted all judgment to the Son, 
5	23	that all may honour the Son just as they honour the Father. He who does not honour the Son does not honour the Father, who sent him. 
5	24	I tell you the truth, whoever hears my word and believes him who sent me has eternal life and will not be condemned he has crossed over from death to life. 
5	25	I tell you the truth, a time is coming and has now come when the dead will hear the voice of the Son of God and those who hear will live. 
5	26	For as the Father has life in himself, so he has granted the Son to have life in himself. 
5	27	And he has given him authority to judge because he is the Son of Man. 
5	28	Do not be amazed at this, for a time is coming when all who are in their graves will hear his voice 
5	29	and come out	those who have done good will rise to live, and those who have done evil will rise to be condemned. 
5	30	By myself I can do nothing I judge only as I hear, and my judgment is just, for I seek not to please myself but him who sent me. 
5	31	If I testify about myself, my testimony is not valid. 
5	32	There is another who testifies in my favour, and I know that his testimony about me is valid. 
5	33	You have sent to John and he has testified to the truth. 
5	34	Not that I accept human testimony but I mention it that you may be saved. 
5	35	John was a lamp that burned and gave light, and you chose for a time to enjoy his light. 
5	36	I have testimony weightier than that of John. For the very work that the Father has given me to finish, and which I am doing, testifies that the Father has sent me. 
5	37	And the Father who sent me has himself testified concerning me. You have never heard his voice nor seen his form, 
5	38	nor does his word dwell in you, for you do not believe the one he sent. 
5	39	You diligently study [Or Study diligently (the imperative)] the Scriptures because you think that by them you possess eternal life. These are the Scriptures that testify about me, 
5	40	yet you refuse to come to me to have life. 
5	41	I do not accept praise from men, 
5	42	but I know you. I know that you do not have the love of God in your hearts. 
5	43	I have come in my Father’s name, and you do not accept me but if someone else comes in his own name, you will accept him. 
5	44	How can you believe if you accept praise from one another, yet make no effort to obtain the praise that comes from the only God? [Some early manuscripts the Only One] 
5	45	But do not think I will accuse you before the Father. Your accuser is Moses, on whom your hopes are set. 
5	46	If you believed Moses, you would believe me, for he wrote about me. 
5	47	But since you do not believe what he wrote, how are you going to believe what I say?