1	1	In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. 
1	2	He was with God in the beginning. 
1	3	Through him all things were made without him nothing was made that has been made. 
1	4	In him was life, and that life was the light of men. 
1	5	The light shines in the darkness, but the darkness has not understood [Or darkness, and the darkness has not overcome] it. 
1	6	There came a man who was sent from God his name was John. 
1	7	He came as a witness to testify concerning that light, so that through him all men might believe. 
1	8	He himself was not the light he came only as a witness to the light. 
1	9	The true light that gives light to every man was coming into the world. [Or This was the true light that gives light to every man who comes into the world] 
1	10	He was in the world, and though the world was made through him, the world did not recognise him. 
1	11	He came to that which was his own, but his own did not receive him. 
1	12	Yet to all who received him, to those who believed in his name, he gave the right to become children of God 
1	13	children born not of natural descent, [Greek	 of bloods] nor of human decision or a husband’s will, but born of God. 
1	14	The Word became flesh and made his dwelling among us. We have seen his glory, the glory of the One and Only, [Or the Only Begotten] who came from the Father, full of grace and truth. 
1	15	John testifies concerning him. He cries out, saying, This was he of whom I said, `He who comes after me has surpassed me because he was before me.’ 
1	16	From the fulness of his grace we have all received one blessing after another. 
1	17	For the law was given through Moses grace and truth came through Jesus Christ. 
1	18	No-one has ever seen God, but God the One and Only, [Or the Only Begotten] [Some manuscripts	 but the only (or only begotten) Son] who is at the Father’s side, has made him known. 
1	19	Now this was John’s testimony when the Jews of Jerusalem sent priests and Levites to ask him who he was. 
1	20	He did not fail to confess, but confessed freely, I am not the Christ. [Or Messiah. The Christ (Greek) and the Messiah (Hebrew) both mean the Anointed One also in verse 25.] 
1	21	They asked him, Then who are you? Are you Elijah? He said, I am not. Are you the Prophet? He answered, No. 
1	22	Finally they said, Who are you? Give us an answer to take back to those who sent us. What do you say about yourself? 
1	23	John replied in the words of Isaiah the prophet, I am the voice of one calling in the desert, `Make straight the way for the Lord.’ [Isaiah 40	3] 
1	24	Now some Pharisees who had been sent 
1	25	questioned him, Why then do you baptise if you are not the Christ, nor Elijah, nor the Prophet? 
1	26	I baptise with [Or in also in verses 31 and 33] water, John replied, but among you stands one you do not know. 
1	27	He is the one who comes after me, the thongs of whose sandals I am not worthy to untie. 
1	28	This all happened at Bethany on the other side of the Jordan, where John was baptising. 
1	29	The next day John saw Jesus coming towards him and said, Look, the Lamb of God, who takes away the sin of the world! 
1	30	This is the one I meant when I said, `A man who comes after me has surpassed me because he was before me.’ 
1	31	I myself did not know him, but the reason I came baptising with water was that he might be revealed to Israel. 
1	32	Then John gave this testimony	 I saw the Spirit come down from heaven as a dove and remain on him. 
1	33	I would not have known him, except that the one who sent me to baptise with water told me, `The man on whom you see the Spirit come down and remain is he who will baptise with the Holy Spirit.’ 
1	34	I have seen and I testify that this is the Son of God. 
1	35	The next day John was there again with two of his disciples. 
1	36	When he saw Jesus passing by, he said, Look, the Lamb of God! 
1	37	When the two disciples heard him say this, they followed Jesus. 
1	38	Turning round, Jesus saw them following and asked, What do you want? They said, Rabbi (which means Teacher), where are you staying? 
1	39	Come, he replied, and you will see. So they went and saw where he was staying, and spent that day with him. It was about the tenth hour. 
1	40	Andrew, Simon Peter’s brother, was one of the two who heard what John had said and who had followed Jesus. 
1	41	The first thing Andrew did was to find his brother Simon and tell him, We have found the Messiah (that is, the Christ). 
1	42	And he brought him to Jesus. Jesus looked at him and said, You are Simon son of John. You will be called Cephas (which, when translated, is Peter). [Both Cephas (Aramaic) and Peter (Greek) mean rock.] 
1	43	The next day Jesus decided to leave for Galilee. Finding Philip, he said to him, Follow me. 
1	44	Philip, like Andrew and Peter, was from the town of Bethsaida. 
1	45	Philip found Nathanael and told him, We have found the one Moses wrote about in the Law, and about whom the prophets also wrote	Jesus of Nazareth, the son of Joseph. 
1	46	Nazareth! Can anything good come from there? Nathanael asked. Come and see, said Philip. 
1	47	When Jesus saw Nathanael approaching, he said of him, Here is a true Israelite, in whom there is nothing false. 
1	48	How do you know me? Nathanael asked. Jesus answered, I saw you while you were still under the fig-tree before Philip called you. 
1	49	Then Nathanael declared, Rabbi, you are the Son of God you are the King of Israel. 
1	50	Jesus said, You believe [Or Do you believe...?] because I told you I saw you under the fig-tree. You shall see greater things than that. 
1	51	He then added, I tell you [The Greek is plural.] the truth, you [The Greek is plural.] shall see heaven open, and the angels of God ascending and descending on the Son of Man.