8	1	But Jesus went to the Mount of Olives. 
8	2	At dawn he appeared again in the temple courts, where all the people gathered round him, and he sat down to teach them. 
8	3	The teachers of the law and the Pharisees brought in a woman caught in adultery. They made her stand before the group 
8	4	and said to Jesus, Teacher, this woman was caught in the act of adultery. 
8	5	In the Law Moses commanded us to stone such women. Now what do you say? 
8	6	They were using this question as a trap, in order to have a basis for accusing him. But Jesus bent down and started to write on the ground with his finger. 
8	7	When they kept on questioning him, he straightened up and said to them, If any one of you is without sin, let him be the first to throw a stone at her. 
8	8	Again he stooped down and wrote on the ground. 
8	9	At this, those who heard began to go away one at a time, the older ones first, until only Jesus was left, with the woman still standing there. 
8	10	Jesus straightened up and asked her, Woman, where are they? Has no-one condemned you? 
8	11	No-one, sir, she said. Then neither do I condemn you, Jesus declared. Go now and leave your life of sin. 
8	12	When Jesus spoke again to the people, he said, I am the light of the world. Whoever follows me will never walk in darkness, but will have the light of life. 
8	13	The Pharisees challenged him, Here you are, appearing as your own witness your testimony is not valid. 
8	14	Jesus answered, Even if I testify on my own behalf, my testimony is valid, for I know where I came from and where I am going. But you have no idea where I come from or where I am going. 
8	15	You judge by human standards I pass judgment on no-one. 
8	16	But if I do judge, my decisions are right, because I am not alone. I stand with the Father, who sent me. 
8	17	In your own Law it is written that the testimony of two men is valid. 
8	18	I am one who testifies for myself my other witness is the Father, who sent me. 
8	19	Then they asked him, Where is your father? You do not know me or my Father, Jesus replied. If you knew me, you would know my Father also. 
8	20	He spoke these words while teaching in the temple area near the place where the offerings were put. Yet no-one seized him, because his time had not yet come. 
8	21	Once more Jesus said to them, I am going away, and you will look for me, and you will die in your sin. Where I go, you cannot come. 
8	22	This made the Jews ask, Will he kill himself? Is that why he says, `Where I go, you cannot come’? 
8	23	But he continued, You are from below I am from above. You are of this world I am not of this world. 
8	24	I told you that you would die in your sins if you do not believe that I am the one I claim to be, [Or I am he also in verse 28] you will indeed die in your sins. 
8	25	Who are you? they asked. Just what I have been claiming all along, Jesus replied. 
8	26	I have much to say in judgment of you. But he who sent me is reliable, and what I have heard from him I tell the world. 
8	27	They did not understand that he was telling them about his Father. 
8	28	So Jesus said, When you have lifted up the Son of Man, then you will know that I am the one I claim to be and that I do nothing on my own but speak just what the Father has taught me. 
8	29	The one who sent me is with me he has not left me alone, for I always do what pleases him. 
8	30	Even as he spoke, many put their faith in him. 
8	31	To the Jews who had believed him, Jesus said, If you hold to my teaching, you are really my disciples. 
8	32	Then you will know the truth, and the truth will set you free. 
8	33	They answered him, We are Abraham’s descendants [Greek	 seed also in verse 37] and have never been slaves of anyone. How can you say that we shall be set free? 
8	34	Jesus replied, I tell you the truth, everyone who sins is a slave to sin. 
8	35	Now a slave has no permanent place in the family, but a son belongs to it for ever. 
8	36	So if the Son sets you free, you will be free indeed. 
8	37	I know you are Abraham’s descendants. Yet you are ready to kill me, because you have no room for my word. 
8	38	I am telling you what I have seen in the Father’s presence, and you do what you have heard from your father. [Or presence. Therefore do what you have heard from the Father.] 
8	39	Abraham is our father, they answered. If you were Abraham’s children, said Jesus, then you would [Some early manuscripts If you are Abraham’s children, said Jesus, then] do the things Abraham did. 
8	40	As it is, you are determined to kill me, a man who has told you the truth that I heard from God. Abraham did not do such things. 
8	41	You are doing the things your own father does. We are not illegitimate children, they protested. The only Father we have is God himself. 
8	42	Jesus said to them, If God were your Father, you would love me, for I came from God and now am here. I have not come on my own but he sent me. 
8	43	Why is my language not clear to you? Because you are unable to hear what I say. 
8	44	You belong to your father, the devil, and you want to carry out your father’s desire. He was a murderer from the beginning, not holding to the truth, for there is no truth in him. When he lies, he speaks his native language, for he is a liar and the fa 
8	45	Yet because I tell the truth, you do not believe me! 
8	46	Can any of you prove me guilty of sin? If I am telling the truth, why don’t you believe me? 
8	47	He who belongs to God hears what God says. The reason you do not hear is that you do not belong to God. 
8	48	The Jews answered him, Aren’t we right in saying that you are a Samaritan and demon-possessed? 
8	49	I am not possessed by a demon, said Jesus, but I honour my Father and you dishonour me. 
8	50	I am not seeking glory for myself but there is one who seeks it, and he is the judge. 
8	51	I tell you the truth, if anyone keeps my word, he will never see death. 
8	52	At this the Jews exclaimed, Now we know that you are demon-possessed! Abraham died and so did the prophets, yet you say that if anyone keeps your word, he will never taste death. 
8	53	Are you greater than our father Abraham? He died, and so did the prophets. Who do you think you are? 
8	54	Jesus replied, If I glorify myself, my glory means nothing. My Father, whom you claim as your God, is the one who glorifies me. 
8	55	Though you do not know him, I know him. If I said I did not, I would be a liar like you, but I do know him and keep his word. 
8	56	Your father Abraham rejoiced at the thought of seeing my day he saw it and was glad. 
8	57	You are not yet fifty years old, the Jews said to him, and you have seen Abraham! 
8	58	I tell you the truth, Jesus answered, before Abraham was born, I am! 
8	59	At this, they picked up stones to stone him, but Jesus hid himself, slipping away from the temple grounds.