2	1	When I came to you, brothers, I did not come with eloquence or superior wisdom as I proclaimed to you the testimony about God. [Some manuscripts	 as I proclaimed to you God’s mystery] 
2	2	For I resolved to know nothing while I was with you except Jesus Christ and him crucified. 
2	3	I came to you in weakness and fear, and with much trembling. 
2	4	My message and my preaching were not with wise and persuasive words, but with a demonstration of the Spirit’s power, 
2	5	so that your faith might not rest on men’s wisdom, but on God’s power. 
2	6	We do, however, speak a message of wisdom among the mature, but not the wisdom of this age or of the rulers of this age, who are coming to nothing. 
2	7	No, we speak of God’s secret wisdom, a wisdom that has been hidden and that God destined for our glory before time began. 
2	8	None of the rulers of this age understood it, for if they had, they would not have crucified the Lord of glory. 
2	9	However, as it is written	 No eye has seen, no ear has heard, no mind has conceived what God has prepared for those who love him	[Isaiah 64	4] 
2	10	but God has revealed it to us by his Spirit. The Spirit searches all things, even the deep things of God. 
2	11	For who among men knows the thoughts of a man except the man’s spirit within him? In the same way no-one knows the thoughts of God except the Spirit of God. 
2	12	We have not received the spirit of the world but the Spirit who is from God, that we may understand what God has freely given us. 
2	13	This is what we speak, not in words taught us by human wisdom but in words taught by the Spirit, expressing spiritual truths in spiritual words. [Or Spirit, interpreting spiritual truths to spiritual men] 
2	14	The man without the Spirit does not accept the things that come from the Spirit of God, for they are foolishness to him, and he cannot understand them, because they are spiritually discerned. 
2	15	The spiritual man makes judgments about all things, but he himself is not subject to any man’s judgment	 
2	16	For who has known the mind of the Lord that he may instruct him? [Isaiah 40	13] But we have the mind of Christ.