3	1	For this reason I, Paul, the prisoner of Christ Jesus for the sake of you Gentiles 
3	2	Surely you have heard about the administration of God’s grace that was given to me for you, 
3	3	that is, the mystery made known to me by revelation, as I have already written briefly. 
3	4	In reading this, then, you will be able to understand my insight into the mystery of Christ, 
3	5	which was not made known to men in other generations as it has now been revealed by the Spirit to God’s holy apostles and prophets. 
3	6	This mystery is that through the gospel the Gentiles are heirs together with Israel, members together of one body, and sharers together in the promise in Christ Jesus. 
3	7	I became a servant of this gospel by the gift of God’s grace given me through the working of his power. 
3	8	Although I am less than the least of all God’s people, this grace was given me	 to preach to the Gentiles the unsearchable riches of Christ, 
3	9	and to make plain to everyone the administration of this mystery, which for ages past was kept hidden in God, who created all things. 
3	10	His intent was that now, through the church, the manifold wisdom of God should be made known to the rulers and authorities in the heavenly realms, 
3	11	according to his eternal purpose which he accomplished in Christ Jesus our Lord. 
3	12	In him and through faith in him we may approach God with freedom and confidence. 
3	13	I ask you, therefore, not to be discouraged because of my sufferings for you, which are your glory. 
3	14	For this reason I kneel before the Father, 
3	15	from whom his whole family [Or whom all fatherhood] in heaven and on earth derives its name. 
3	16	I pray that out of his glorious riches he may strengthen you with power through his Spirit in your inner being, 
3	17	so that Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith. And I pray that you, being rooted and established in love, 
3	18	may have power, together with all the saints, to grasp how wide and long and high and deep is the love of Christ, 
3	19	and to know this love that surpasses knowledge	that you may be filled to the measure of all the fulness of God. 
3	20	Now to him who is able to do immeasurably more than all we ask or imagine, according to his power that is at work within us, 
3	21	to him be glory in the church and in Christ Jesus throughout all generations, for ever and ever! Amen.