7	1	When Moses finished setting up the tabernacle, he anointed it and consecrated it and all its furnishings. He also anointed and consecrated the altar and all its utensils. 
7	2	Then the leaders of Israel, the heads of families who were the tribal leaders in charge of those who were counted, made offerings. 
7	3	They brought as their gifts before the LORD six covered carts and twelve oxen	an ox from each leader and a cart from every two. These they presented before the tabernacle. 
7	4	The LORD said to Moses, 
7	5	Accept these from them, that they may be used in the work at the Tent of Meeting. Give them to the Levites as each man’s work requires. 
7	9	But Moses did not give any to the Kohathites, because they were to carry on their shoulders the holy things, for which they were responsible. 
7	10	When the altar was anointed, the leaders brought their offerings for its dedication and presented them before the altar. 
7	11	For the LORD had said to Moses, Each day one leader is to bring his offering for the dedication of the altar. 
7	12	The one who brought his offering on the first day was Nahshon son of Amminadab of the tribe of Judah. 
7	13	His offering was one silver plate weighing a hundred and thirty shekels, [That is, about 3 1/4 pounds (about 1.5 kilograms) also elsewhere in this chapter] and one silver sprinkling bowl weighing seventy shekels, [That is, about 1 3/4 pounds (about 0.8 
7	14	one gold dish weighing ten shekels, [That is, about 4 ounces (about 115 grams) also elsewhere in this chapter] filled with incense 
7	15	one young bull, one ram and one male lamb a year old, for a burnt offering 
7	16	one male goat for a sin offering 
7	17	and two oxen, five rams, five male goats and five male lambs a year old, to be sacrificed as a fellowship offering. 333 [Traditionally peace offering also elsewhere in this chapter] This was the offering of Nahshon son of Amminadab. 
7	18	On the second day Nethanel son of Zuar, the leader of Issachar, brought his offering. 
7	19	The offering he brought was one silver plate weighing a hundred and thirty shekels, and one silver sprinkling bowl weighing seventy shekels, both according to the sanctuary shekel, each filled with fine flour mixed with oil as a grain offering 
7	20	one gold dish weighing ten shekels, filled with incense 
7	21	one young bull, one ram and one male lamb a year old, for a burnt offering 
7	22	one male goat for a sin offering 
7	23	and two oxen, five rams, five male goats and five male lambs a year old, to be sacrificed as a fellowship offering. This was the offering of Nethanel son of Zuar. 
7	24	On the third day, Eliab son of Helon, the leader of the people of Zebulun, brought his offering. 
7	25	His offering was one silver plate weighing a hundred and thirty shekels, and one silver sprinkling bowl weighing seventy shekels, both according to the sanctuary shekel, each filled with fine flour mixed with oil as a grain offering 
7	26	one gold dish weighing ten shekels, filled with incense 
7	27	one young bull, one ram and one male lamb a year old, for a burnt offering 
7	28	one male goat for a sin offering 
7	29	and two oxen, five rams, five male goats and five male lambs a year old, to be sacrificed as a fellowship offering. This was the offering of Eliab son of Helon. 
7	30	On the fourth day Elizur son of Shedeur, the leader of the people of Reuben, brought his offering. 
7	31	His offering was one silver plate weighing a hundred and thirty shekels, and one silver sprinkling bowl weighing seventy shekels, both according to the sanctuary shekel, each filled with fine flour mixed with oil as a grain offering 
7	32	one gold dish weighing ten shekels, filled with incense 
7	33	one young bull, one ram and one male lamb a year old, for a burnt offering 
7	34	one male goat for a sin offering 
7	35	and two oxen, five rams, five male goats and five male lambs a year old, to be sacrificed as a fellowship offering. This was the offering of Elizur son of Shedeur. 
7	36	On the fifth day Shelumiel son of Zurishaddai, the leader of the people of Simeon, brought his offering. 
7	37	His offering was one silver plate weighing a hundred and thirty shekels, and one silver sprinkling bowl weighing seventy shekels, both according to the sanctuary shekel, each filled with fine flour mixed with oil as a grain offering 
7	38	one gold dish weighing ten shekels, filled with incense 
7	39	one young bull, one ram and one male lamb a year old, for a burnt offering 
7	40	one male goat for a sin offering 
7	41	and two oxen, five rams, five male goats and five male lambs a year old, to be sacrificed as a fellowship offering. This was the offering of Shelumiel son of Zurishaddai. 
7	42	On the sixth day Eliasaph son of Deuel, the leader of the people of Gad, brought his offering. 
7	43	His offering was one silver plate weighing a hundred and thirty shekels, and one silver sprinkling bowl weighing seventy shekels, both according to the sanctuary shekel, each filled with fine flour mixed with oil as a grain offering 
7	44	one gold dish weighing ten shekels, filled with incense 
7	45	one young bull, one ram and one male lamb a year old, for a burnt offering 
7	46	one male goat for a sin offering 
7	47	and two oxen, five rams, five male goats and five male lambs a year old, to be sacrificed as a fellowship offering. This was the offering of Eliasaph son of Deuel. 
7	48	On the seventh day Elishama son of Ammihud, the leader of the people of Ephraim, brought his offering. 
7	49	His offering was one silver plate weighing a hundred and thirty shekels, and one silver sprinkling bowl weighing seventy shekels, both according to the sanctuary shekel, each filled with fine flour mixed with oil as a grain offering 
7	50	one gold dish weighing ten shekels, filled with incense 
7	51	one young bull, one ram and one male lamb a year old, for a burnt offering 
7	52	one male goat for a sin offering 
7	53	and two oxen, five rams, five male goats and five male lambs a year old, to be sacrificed as a fellowship offering. This was the offering of Elishama son of Ammihud. 
7	54	On the eighth day Gamaliel son of Pedahzur, the leader of the people of Manasseh, brought his offering. 
7	55	His offering was one silver plate weighing a hundred and thirty shekels, and one silver sprinkling bowl weighing seventy shekels, both according to the sanctuary shekel, each filled with fine flour mixed with oil as a grain offering 
7	56	one gold dish weighing ten shekels, filled with incense 
7	57	one young bull, one ram and one male lamb a year old, for a burnt offering 
7	58	one male goat for a sin offering 
7	59	and two oxen, five rams, five male goats and five male lambs a year old, to be sacrificed as a fellowship offering. This was the offering of Gamaliel son of Pedahzur. 
7	60	On the ninth day Abidan son of Gideoni, the leader of the people of Benjamin, brought his offering. 
7	61	His offering was one silver plate weighing a hundred and thirty shekels, and one silver sprinkling bowl weighing seventy shekels, both according to the sanctuary shekel, each filled with fine flour mixed with oil as a grain offering 
7	62	one gold dish weighing ten shekels, filled with incense 
7	63	one young bull, one ram and one male lamb a year old, for a burnt offering 
7	64	one male goat for a sin offering 
7	65	and two oxen, five rams, five male goats and five male lambs a year old, to be sacrificed as a fellowship offering. This was the offering of Abidan son of Gideoni. 
7	66	On the tenth day Ahiezer son of Ammishaddai, the leader of the people of Dan, brought his offering. 
7	67	His offering was one silver plate weighing a hundred and thirty shekels, and one silver sprinkling bowl weighing seventy shekels, both according to the sanctuary shekel, each filled with fine flour mixed with oil as a grain offering 
7	68	one gold dish weighing ten shekels, filled with incense 
7	69	one young bull, one ram and one male lamb a year old, for a burnt offering 
7	70	one male goat for a sin offering 
7	71	and two oxen, five rams, five male goats and five male lambs a year old, to be sacrificed as a fellowship offering. This was the offering of Ahiezer son of Ammishaddai. 
7	72	On the eleventh day Pagiel son of Ocran, the leader of the people of Asher, brought his offering. 
7	73	His offering was one silver plate weighing a hundred and thirty shekels, and one silver sprinkling bowl weighing seventy shekels, both according to the sanctuary shekel, each filled with fine flour mixed with oil as a grain offering 
7	74	one gold dish weighing ten shekels, filled with incense 
7	75	one young bull, one ram and one male lamb a year old, for a burnt offering 
7	76	one male goat for a sin offering 
7	77	and two oxen, five rams, five male goats and five male lambs a year old, to be sacrificed as a fellowship offering. This was the offering of Pagiel son of Ocran. 
7	78	On the twelfth day Ahira son of Enan, the leader of the people of Naphtali, brought his offering. 
7	79	His offering was one silver plate weighing a hundred and thirty shekels, and one silver sprinkling bowl weighing seventy shekels, both according to the sanctuary shekel, each filled with fine flour mixed with oil as a grain offering 
7	80	one gold dish weighing ten shekels, filled with incense 
7	81	one young bull, one ram and one male lamb a year old, for a burnt offering 
7	82	one male goat for a sin offering 
7	83	and two oxen, five rams, five male goats and five male lambs a year old, to be sacrificed as a fellowship offering. This was the offering of Ahira son of Enan. 
7	84	These were the offerings of the Israelite leaders for the dedication of the altar when it was anointed	 twelve silver plates, twelve silver sprinkling bowls and twelve gold dishes. 
7	85	Each silver plate weighed a hundred and thirty shekels, and each sprinkling bowl seventy shekels. Altogether, the silver dishes weighed two thousand four hundred shekels, [That is, about 61 pounds (about 28 kilograms)] according to the sanctuary shekel 
7	86	The twelve gold dishes filled with incense weighed ten shekels each, according to the sanctuary shekel. Altogether, the gold dishes weighed a hundred and twenty shekels. [That is, about 3 pounds (about 1.4 kilograms)] 
7	87	The total number of animals for the burnt offering came to twelve young bulls, twelve rams and twelve male lambs a year old, together with their grain offering. Twelve male goats were used for the sin offering. 
7	88	The total number of animals for the sacrifice of the fellowship offering came to twenty-four oxen, sixty rams, sixty male goats and sixty male lambs a year old. These were the offerings for the dedication of the altar after it was anointed. 
7	89	When Moses entered the Tent of Meeting to speak with the LORD, he heard the voice speaking to him from between the two cherubim above the atonement cover on the ark of the Testimony. And he spoke with him.