1	1	Paul and Timothy, servants of Christ Jesus, To all the saints in Christ Jesus at Philippi, together with the overseers [Traditionally bishops] and deacons	 
1	2	Grace and peace to you from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. 
1	3	I thank my God every time I remember you. 
1	4	In all my prayers for all of you, I always pray with joy 
1	5	because of your partnership in the gospel from the first day until now, 
1	6	being confident of this, that he who began a good work in you will carry it on to completion until the day of Christ Jesus. 
1	7	It is right for me to feel this way about all of you, since I have you in my heart for whether I am in chains or defending and confirming the gospel, all of you share in God’s grace with me. 
1	8	God can testify how I long for all of you with the affection of Christ Jesus. 
1	9	And this is my prayer	 that your love may abound more and more in knowledge and depth of insight, 
1	10	so that you may be able to discern what is best and may be pure and blameless until the day of Christ, 
1	11	filled with the fruit of righteousness that comes through Jesus Christ	to the glory and praise of God. 
1	12	Now I want you to know, brothers, that what has happened to me has really served to advance the gospel. 
1	13	As a result, it has become clear throughout the whole palace guard [Or whole palace] and to everyone else that I am in chains for Christ. 
1	14	Because of my chains, most of the brothers in the Lord have been encouraged to speak the word of God more courageously and fearlessly. 
1	15	It is true that some preach Christ out of envy and rivalry, but others out of goodwill. 
1	16	The latter do so in love, knowing that I am put here for the defence of the gospel. 
1	17	The former preach Christ out of selfish ambition, not sincerely, supposing that they can stir up trouble for me while I am in chains. [Some late manuscripts have verses 16 and 17 in reverse order.] 
1	18	But what does it matter? The important thing is that in every way, whether from false motives or true, Christ is preached. And because of this I rejoice. Yes, and I will continue to rejoice, 
1	19	for I know that through your prayers and the help given by the Spirit of Jesus Christ, what has happened to me will turn out for my deliverance. [Or salvation] 
1	20	I eagerly expect and hope that I will in no way be ashamed, but will have sufficient courage so that now as always Christ will be exalted in my body, whether by life or by death. 
1	21	For to me, to live is Christ and to die is gain. 
1	22	If I am to go on living in the body, this will mean fruitful labour for me. Yet what shall I choose? I do not know! 
1	23	I am torn between the two	 I desire to depart and be with Christ, which is better by far 
1	24	but it is more necessary for you that I remain in the body. 
1	25	Convinced of this, I know that I will remain, and I will continue with all of you for your progress and joy in the faith, 
1	26	so that through my being with you again your joy in Christ Jesus will overflow on account of me. 
1	27	Whatever happens, conduct yourselves in a manner worthy of the gospel of Christ. Then, whether I come and see you or only hear about you in my absence, I will know that you stand firm in one spirit, contending as one man for the faith of the gospel 
1	28	without being frightened in any way by those who oppose you. This is a sign to them that they will be destroyed, but that you will be saved	and that by God. 
1	29	For it has been granted to you on behalf of Christ not only to believe on him, but also to suffer for him, 
1	30	since you are going through the same struggle you saw I had, and now hear that I still have.