2	1	If you have any encouragement from being united with Christ, if any comfort from his love, if any fellowship with the Spirit, if any tenderness and compassion, 
2	2	then make my joy complete by being like-minded, having the same love, being one in spirit and purpose. 
2	3	Do nothing out of selfish ambition or vain conceit, but in humility consider others better than yourselves. 
2	4	Each of you should look not only to your own interests, but also to the interests of others. 
2	5	Your attitude should be the same as that of Christ Jesus	 
2	6	Who, being in very nature [Or in the form of] God, did not consider equality with God something to be grasped, 
2	7	but made himself nothing, taking the very nature [Or the form] of a servant, being made in human likeness. 
2	8	And being found in appearance as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient to death	even death on a cross! 
2	9	Therefore God exalted him to the highest place and gave him the name that is above every name, 
2	10	that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, in heaven and on earth and under the earth, 
2	11	and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the Father. 
2	12	Therefore, my dear friends, as you have always obeyed	not only in my presence, but now much more in my absence	continue to work out your salvation with fear and trembling, 
2	13	for it is God who works in you to will and to act according to his good purpose. 
2	14	Do everything without complaining or arguing, 
2	15	so that you may become blameless and pure, children of God without fault in a crooked and depraved generation, in which you shine like stars in the universe 
2	16	as you hold out [Or hold on to] the word of life	in order that I may boast on the day of Christ that I did not run or labour for nothing. 
2	17	But even if I am being poured out like a drink offering on the sacrifice and service coming from your faith, I am glad and rejoice with all of you. 
2	18	So you too should be glad and rejoice with me. 
2	19	I hope in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy to you soon, that I also may be cheered when I receive news about you. 
2	20	I have no-one else like him, who takes a genuine interest in your welfare. 
2	21	For everyone looks out for his own interests, not those of Jesus Christ. 
2	22	But you know that Timothy has proved himself, because as a son with his father he has served with me in the work of the gospel. 
2	23	I hope, therefore, to send him as soon as I see how things go with me. 
2	24	And I am confident in the Lord that I myself will come soon. 
2	25	But I think it is necessary to send back to you Epaphroditus, my brother, fellow-worker and fellow-soldier, who is also your messenger, whom you sent to take care of my needs. 
2	26	For he longs for all of you and is distressed because you heard he was ill. 
2	27	Indeed he was ill, and almost died. But God had mercy on him, and not on him only but also on me, to spare me sorrow upon sorrow. 
2	28	Therefore I am all the more eager to send him, so that when you see him again you may be glad and I may have less anxiety. 
2	29	Welcome him in the Lord with great joy, and honour men like him, 
2	30	because he almost died for the work of Christ, risking his life to make up for the help you could not give me.