2	1	You then, my son, be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. 
2	2	And the things you have heard me say in the presence of many witnesses entrust to reliable men who will also be qualified to teach others. 
2	3	Endure hardship with us like a good soldier of Christ Jesus. 
2	4	No-one serving as a soldier gets involved in civilian affairs	he wants to please his commanding officer. 
2	5	Similarly, if anyone competes as an athlete, he does not receive the victor’s crown unless he competes according to the rules. 
2	6	The hardworking farmer should be the first to receive a share of the crops. 
2	7	Reflect on what I am saying, for the Lord will give you insight into all this. 
2	8	Remember Jesus Christ, raised from the dead, descended from David. This is my gospel, 
2	9	for which I am suffering even to the point of being chained like a criminal. But God’s word is not chained. 
2	10	Therefore I endure everything for the sake of the elect, that they too may obtain the salvation that is in Christ Jesus, with eternal glory. 
2	11	Here is a trustworthy saying	 If we died with him, we will also live with him 
2	12	if we endure, we will also reign with him. If we disown him, he will also disown us 
2	13	if we are faithless, he will remain faithful, for he cannot disown himself. 
2	14	Keep reminding them of these things. Warn them before God against quarrelling about words it is of no value, and only ruins those who listen. 
2	15	Do your best to present yourself to God as one approved, a workman who does not need to be ashamed and who correctly handles the word of truth. 
2	16	Avoid godless chatter, because those who indulge in it will become more and more ungodly. 
2	17	Their teaching will spread like gangrene. Among them are Hymenaeus and Philetus, 
2	18	who have wandered away from the truth. They say that the resurrection has already taken place, and they destroy the faith of some. 
2	19	Nevertheless, God’s solid foundation stands firm, sealed with this inscription	 The Lord knows those who are his, [Num. 5 (see Septuagint)] and, Everyone who confesses the name of the Lord must turn away from wickedness. 
2	20	In a large house there are articles not only of gold and silver, but also of wood and clay some are for noble purposes and some for ignoble. 
2	21	If a man cleanses himself from the latter, he will be an instrument for noble purposes, made holy, useful to the Master and prepared to do any good work. 
2	22	Flee the evil desires of youth, and pursue righteousness, faith, love and peace, along with those who call on the Lord out of a pure heart. 
2	23	Don’t have anything to do with foolish and stupid arguments, because you know they produce quarrels. 
2	24	And the Lord’s servant must not quarrel instead, he must be kind to everyone, able to teach, not resentful. 
2	25	Those who oppose him he must gently instruct, in the hope that God will grant them repentance leading them to a knowledge of the truth, 
2	26	and that they will come to their senses and escape from the trap of the devil, who has taken them captive to do his will.