2	1	We must pay more careful attention, therefore, to what we have heard, so that we do not drift away. 
2	2	For if the message spoken by angels was binding, and every violation and disobedience received its just punishment, 
2	3	how shall we escape if we ignore such a great salvation? This salvation, which was first announced by the Lord, was confirmed to us by those who heard him. 
2	4	God also testified to it by signs, wonders and various miracles, and gifts of the Holy Spirit distributed according to his will. 
2	5	It is not to angels that he has subjected the world to come, about which we are speaking. 
2	6	But there is a place where someone has testified	 What is man that you are mindful of him, the son of man that you care for him? 
2	7	You made him a little [Or him for a little while also in verse 9] lower than the angels you crowned him with glory and honour 
2	8	and put everything under his feet. [Psalm 8	4-6] In putting everything under him, God left nothing that is not subject to him. Yet at present we do not see everything subject to him. 
2	9	But we see Jesus, who was made a little lower than the angels, now crowned with glory and honour because he suffered death, so that by the grace of God he might taste death for everyone. 
2	10	In bringing many sons to glory, it was fitting that God, for whom and through whom everything exists, should make the author of their salvation perfect through suffering. 
2	11	Both the one who makes men holy and those who are made holy are of the same family. So Jesus is not ashamed to call them brothers. 
2	12	He says, I will declare your name to my brothers in the presence of the congregation I will sing your praises. [Psalm 22	22] 
2	13	And again, I will put my trust in him. [Isaiah 8	17] And again he says, Here am I, and the children God has given me. [Isaiah 8	18] 
2	14	Since the children have flesh and blood, he too shared in their humanity so that by his death he might destroy him who holds the power of death	that is, the devil 
2	15	and free those who all their lives were held in slavery by their fear of death. 
2	16	For surely it is not angels he helps, but Abraham’s descendants. 
2	17	For this reason he had to be made like his brothers in every way, in order that he might become a merciful and faithful high priest in service to God, and that he might make 561 atonement for [Or and that he might turn aside God’s wrath, taking away] t 
2	18	Because he himself suffered when he was tempted, he is able to help those who are being tempted.