19	1	After this I heard what sounded like the roar of a great multitude in heaven shouting	 Hallelujah! Salvation and glory and power belong to our God, 
19	2	for true and just are his judgments. He has condemned the great prostitute who corrupted the earth by her adulteries. He has avenged on her the blood of his servants. 
19	3	And again they shouted	 Hallelujah! The smoke from her goes up for ever and ever. 
19	4	The twenty-four elders and the four living creatures fell down and worshipped God, who was seated on the throne. And they cried	 Amen, Hallelujah! 
19	5	Then a voice came from the throne, saying	 Praise our God, all you his servants, you who fear him, both small and great! 
19	6	Then I heard what sounded like a great multitude, like the roar of rushing waters and like loud peals of thunder, shouting	 Hallelujah! For our Lord God Almighty reigns. 
19	7	Let us rejoice and be glad and give him glory! For the wedding of the Lamb has come, and his bride has made herself ready. 
19	8	Fine linen, bright and clean, was given her to wear. (Fine linen stands for the righteous acts of the saints.) 
19	9	Then the angel said to me, Write	 `Blessed are those who are invited to the wedding supper of the Lamb!’ And he added, These are the true words of God. 
19	10	At this I fell at his feet to worship him. But he said to me, Do not do it! I am a fellow-servant with you and with your brothers who hold to the testimony of Jesus. Worship God! For the testimony of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy. 
19	11	I saw heaven standing open and there before me was a white horse, whose rider is called Faithful and True. With justice he judges and makes war. 
19	12	His eyes are like blazing fire, and on his head are many crowns. He has a name written on him that no-one knows but he himself. 
19	13	He is dressed in a robe dipped in blood, and his name is the Word of God. 
19	14	The armies of heaven were following him, riding on white horses and dressed in fine linen, white and clean. 
19	15	Out of his mouth comes a sharp sword with which to strike down the nations. He will rule them with an iron sceptre. [Psalm 2	9] He treads the winepress of the fury of the wrath of God Almighty. 
19	16	On his robe and on his thigh he has this name written	 KING OF KINGS AND LORD OF LORDS. 
19	17	And I saw an angel standing in the sun, who cried in a loud voice to all the birds flying in mid-air, Come, gather together for the great supper of God, 
19	18	so that you may eat the flesh of kings, generals, and mighty men, of horses and their riders, and the flesh of all people, free and slave, small and great. 
19	19	Then I saw the beast and the kings of the earth and their armies gathered together to make war against the rider on the horse and his army. 
19	20	But the beast was captured, and with him the false prophet who had performed the miraculous signs on his behalf. With these signs he had deluded those who had received the mark of the beast and worshipped his image. The two of them were thrown alive in 
19	21	The rest of them were killed with the sword that came out of the mouth of the rider on the horse, and all the birds gorged themselves on their flesh.