13	1	Saul was thirty [A few late manuscripts of the Septuagint Hebrew does not have thirty.] years old when he became king, and he reigned over Israel for forty-[See the round number in Acts 21 Hebrew does not have forty-.]two years. 
13	2	Saul [Or and when he had reigned over Israel for two years, 2 he] chose three thousand men from Israel two thousand were with him at Michmash and in the hill country of Bethel, and a thousand were with Jonathan at Gibeah in Benjamin. The rest of the men 
13	3	Jonathan attacked the Philistine outpost at Geba, and the Philistines heard about it. Then Saul had the trumpet blown throughout the land and said, Let the Hebrews hear! 
13	4	So all Israel heard the news	 Saul has attacked the Philistine outpost, and now Israel has become an offence to the Philistines. And the people were summoned to join Saul at Gilgal. 
13	5	The Philistines assembled to fight Israel, with three thousand [Some Septuagint manuscripts and Syriac Hebrew thirty thousand] chariots, six thousand charioteers, and soldiers as numerous as the sand on the seashore. They went up and camped at Michmash, 
13	6	When the men of Israel saw that their situation was critical and that their army was hard pressed, they hid in caves and thickets, among the rocks, and in pits and cisterns. 
13	7	Some Hebrews even crossed the Jordan to the land of Gad and Gilead. Saul remained at Gilgal, and all the troops with him were quaking with fear. 
13	8	He waited for seven days, the time set by Samuel but Samuel did not come to Gilgal, and Saul’s men began to scatter. 
13	9	So he said, Bring me the burnt offering and the fellowship offerings. [Traditionally peace offerings] And Saul offered up the burnt offering. 
13	10	Just as he finished making the offering, Samuel arrived, and Saul went out to greet him. 
13	11	What have you done? asked Samuel. Saul replied, When I saw that the men were scattering, and that you did not come at the set time, and that the Philistines were assembling at Michmash, 
13	12	I thought, `Now the Philistines will come down against me at Gilgal, and I have not sought the LORD’s favour.’ So I felt compelled to offer the burnt offering. 
13	13	You acted foolishly, Samuel said. You have not kept the command the LORD your God gave you if you had, he would have established your kingdom over Israel for all time. 
13	14	But now your kingdom will not endure the LORD has sought out a man after his own heart and appointed him leader of his people, because you have not kept the LORD’s command. 
13	15	Then Samuel left Gilgal [Hebrew Septuagint Gilgal and went his way the rest of the people went after Saul to meet the army, and they went out of Gilgal] and went up to Gibeah in Benjamin, and Saul counted the men who were with him. They numbered about	
13	16	Saul and his son Jonathan and the men with them were staying in Gibeah [Two Hebrew manuscripts most Hebrew manuscripts Geba, a variant of Gibeah] of Benjamin, while the Philistines camped at Michmash. 
13	17	Raiding parties went out from the Philistine camp in three detachments. One turned towards Ophrah in the vicinity of Shual, 
13	18	another towards Beth Horon, and the third towards the borderland overlooking the Valley of Zeboim facing the desert. 
13	19	Not a blacksmith could be found in the whole land of Israel, because the Philistines had said, Otherwise the Hebrews will make swords or spears! 
13	20	So all Israel went down to the Philistines to have their ploughshares, mattocks, axes and sickles [Septuagint Hebrew ploughshares] sharpened. 
13	21	The price was two thirds of a shekel [Hebrew pim that is, about 1/4 ounce (about 8 grams)] for sharpening ploughshares and mattocks, and a third of a shekel [That is, about 1/8 ounce (about 4 grams)] for sharpening forks and axes and for repointing goa 
13	22	So on the day of the battle not a soldier with Saul and Jonathan had a sword or spear in his hand only Saul and his son Jonathan had them. 
13	23	Now a detachment of Philistines had gone out to the pass at Michmash.